---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2728
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">New location for Social Sciences Dean's Office</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">The Social Sciences Dean's Office (117 SS 1) is in the process of moving to 2101 College Nine Apartments. The office will be back in communication via phone by Tuesday, November 7. The Social Sciences Staff Human Resources/Payroll Services will close on November 8 for the move to their new location at 2104 Building 2, College Nine Apartments. They will reopen on Monday November 13. And finally, the Social Sciences Service Center will be moving at the end of November. There will be no change in e-mail addresses or phone extensions and the disruption to office services should be minimal.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Treat yourself to a lunch-break massage</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Students in the Recreation Office's Holistic Health Program are offering soothing, nurturing, relaxing, tension-melting chair massages at several campus locations on Thursdays in November. The cost is $10 for a 20-minute session. You must sign up in advance, and enrollment is limited. Times are the same for all dates and locations: 11:30-11:50 a.m., 11:55 a.m.-12:15 p.m., 12:20-12:40 p.m., 12:45-1:05 p.m., and 1:10-1:30 p.m. Dates and locations are listed below. For more information or to sign up, call (831) 459-2668.</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 9: Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 16:</font> OPERS Conference Room at the East Field House
  </li>
  <li>November 30: Women's Center
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Adventure travel slide show and workshop</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">"The Golden Road . . . Overland from Scotland to Asia" is the title of a slide show by Shannon Clements and Mike Parry on Saturday, November 18, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in Classroom Unit 1. The cost is $3/students and $5/general; tickets will be available at the door.<br>
  <br>
  Then join Clements and Parry for an Adventure Travel Workshop on Sunday, November 19, from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the OPERS Conference Room, East Field House. The cost is $8/students and $10/general. To register for the workshop, call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2807.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">New workshops from Training &amp; Development</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <b>"Dealing with 'Difficult' People"</b><br>
  Effectively managing difficult situations is essential to customer service, supervision, and working as a member of a team. In this workshop, participants will identify common types of difficult behaviors and develop strategies for each.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Topics will include handling criticism, setting limits, enlisting support, and finding alternatives.
  </li>
  <li>Presenter: Nancy Heischman, Conflict Resolution Center
  </li>
  <li>Date: Thursdays, November 9 and 30
  </li>
  <li>Time: 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. (11/9) and 10 a.m. - noon (11/30)
  </li>
  <li>Fee: $120
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>"Unclutter Your Desk</b>"<br>
  Does your desk look like a disaster zone? Tired of searching for that important document? This workshop will teach you how to deal with paper piles, mail, filing systems, and paper-retention issues. Find out how to streamline your work day with hands-on strategies and techniques for managing paper flow and clutter.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Presenter: Farol Henderson, professional organizer with her own consulting business
  </li>
  <li>Date: Thursday, December 7
  </li>
  <li>Time: 8:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
  </li>
  <li>Fee: $70
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  To enroll in a workshop, e-mail workshop@cats.ucsc.edu. Please include the following information in the request: name and date of the program or workshop; employee name; employee telephone extension and e-mail address; unit and campus mailing address; employee job title; and immediate supervisor's name, phone extension, and e-mail address.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Regents' Professors and Lecturers</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">The Committee on Regents' Professors and Lecturers is soliciting nominations for 2001-02. The program brings distinguished men and women, ordinarily from nonacademic careers, to the university for an academic quarter or less. Nominations should originate from academic units and be reviewed by the appropriate divisional dean prior to submission to the committee. The deadline for nominations is November 30. For more information, call Ann McCardy at (831) 459-3740.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">UCSC Forum on Community Television</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for November. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays, with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>November 5: "Artists and Communities: Contemporary Site Works, Part 1," talks by UCSC visiting lecturers Suzanne Lacy and Amalia Mesa-Bains (repeat) (repeats November 8)
  </li>
  <li>November 12: "Artists and Communities: Contemporary Site Works, Part 2," talks by UCSC associate professor of art Nobuho Nagasawa and visiting lecturer Fred Wilson (repeat) (repeats November 15)
  </li>
  <li>November 19: UCSC professor of history of consciousness Gary Lease: "What are the humanities and why do they matter: The case of religion and public life" (repeat) (repeats November 22)
  </li>
  <li>November 26: Poet and writer Amiri Baraka: "The Highest Form of Knowledge Is Use" (repeat) (repeats November 29)<br>
    <br>
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/11-06/takenote.html" title="Permalink to takenote">Source</a></p>
