---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2526
images:
---

<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz County Sentinel</i> ran storieson UCSC's plans for a Silicon Valley Center at the proposed NASA Research Park. Both articles quoted <b>Chancellor Greenwood</b> extensively. <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was also quoted in the <i>Mercury News</i> article.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Karl Gebhardt,</b> a Hubble postdoctoral fellow in astronomy and astrophysics, was interviewed by the BBC for a television documentary on black holes.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Keith Warner</b>, a doctoral student in environmental studies, penned an op-ed for the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about river management in California and the environmental impacts of dams.
</p>
<p>
  KION (Channel 46) did a "Travels with Romney" segment on summer drop-in programs at the Seymour Center at Long Marine Lab. The story featured visitor programs manager <b>Lisa Borok,</b> interns (and alumni) <b>Lejla Borovac</b> and <b>Nina Ball,</b> and lots of kids and families enjoying the center's Creature Feature program.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Carter Wilson</b> of community studies was among those singing the praises of local photographer Gypsy Ray, who is moving to Ireland. Other UCSC friends of the artist who were interviewed include <b>Geoff Dunn</b>, <b>Elaine Kihara,</b> and former UCSC staff photographer <b>Al Lowry</b>.<br>
  <br>
  An article in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> featured studies of krill in Monterey Bay by <b>Baldo Marinovic,</b> a researcher in the Institute of Marine Sciences. As part of a larger project to explore the nation's marine sanctuaries using a one-person submarine, <i>DeepWorker;</i>Marinovic was able to observe the bioluminescence of krill at a depth of 600 feet in Monterey.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/07-31/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
