---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2573
images:
---

<p>
  <b>Chancellor Greenwood</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz County Sentinel</i> article about a new collaborative effort by UCSC, San Jose State University, Foothill and De Anza community colleges, and NASA researchers to reach out to those who've missed out on the opportunities of the booming Silicon Valley economy.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Bloom</b> of the New Teacher Center penned an op-ed that appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the need for good school principals.
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Bruce Bridgeman</b> was interviewed by the <i>Hartford Courant</i> for a piece about Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Russell Flegal,</b> professor and chair of environmental toxicology, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the newly established Department of Environmental Toxicology. KION (Channel 46) also ran a story on the new department, featuring interviews with Flegal and Assistant Professor <b>Zhiwu Zhu.<br>
  <br>
  Brian Latta,</b> a biologist with the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, was featured in an article in the September issue of <i>Outside</i> magazine. The story included photos of Latta climbing on bridges and cliffs to rescue and relocate peregrine falcon chicks from high-mortality nests.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>David Kaun</b> was a guest on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> show, discussing economic issues involved in this year's presidential campaign.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-11/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
