---
layout: post
title: "Applications for staff adviser to Regents post due February 28"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 7897
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  All eligible UC staff and non-Senate academic employees interested in serving as the 2007-2008 staff adviser designate to the UC Board of Regents need to apply by the end of the day on February 28.
</p>
<p>
  At its January 18, meeting, the UC Board of Regents approved a permanent staff adviser program designed to improve direct communication between UC employees and the Board and to help facilitate staff input to the Board's deliberations and decisions.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/sab/">Staff Advisory Board</a> members Patt Takeuchi and Rosemary Anderson attended the Regents meeting the day before the vote in support of the program. Takeuchi spoke during the public comment period and submitted a statement to the Board of Regents. SAB member Marco Garcia, the junior delegate to the systemwide UC Staff Assemblies, was present at the Thursday vote in support of the proposal.
</p>
<p>
  Under the program, two staff or non-Senate academic employees serve as nonvoting advisers to designated Regents' committees. The staff adviser designate for 2007-2008 will be selected from all eligible UC staff and non-Senate academic employees by UC President Dynes in consultation with the chairman of the Board of Regents.
</p>
<p>
  The term of service will be for two years beginning July 1--the first year as staff adviser designate, and the second year as staff adviser.
</p>
<p>
  Further information about the staff adviser program, including aqn the application form is <a href="http://www.ucop.edu/staffadvisorpgm/">available online.</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/02-12/brief-sab.asp" title="Permalink to brief-sab">Source</a></p>
