---
layout: post
title: "Three students receive Janice A. Nowell Memorial Awards"
author: Tim Stephens
article_author: 
post_id: 7972
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Three UCSC students have received grants from the Janice A. Nowell Memorial Fund for 2007. These awards provide up to $500 to support UCSC students who use electron microscopy in their research. Applicants are evaluated on the basis of their academic merit, the quality of their research project, and their incorporation of electron microscopy techniques.
</p>
<p>
  This year's recipients and their projects are as follows:
</p>
<p>
  <strong>David C. Haisten,</strong> an undergraduate student working with Barry Sinervo, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, on a project entitled "Carotenoid Ingestion Induces Drosopterin Synthesis in the Side-Blotched Lizard, <i>Uta stansburiana."</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Heather E. Mostman-Liwanag,</strong> a graduate student working with Terrie Williams, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, on a project entitled "Adaptation of Fur for Aquatic Living: An Evolutionary Look at Carnivore Fur Structure and Function."
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Gabriel A. Roybal,</strong> a graduate student working with Melissa Jurica, assistant professor of molecular, cell, and developmental biology, on a project entitled "The Capture and Characterization of AG-less Spliceosomes."
</p>
<p>
  The Nowell Awards honor the memory of Janice Nowell, coordinator of the UCSC Electron Microscope Facility from 1975 until her death in 1984. A native of England, Nowell arrived in California in 1964. After working in the School of Veterinary Medicine at UC Davis, she came to UCSC to manage the newly consolidated Electron Microscope Facility. At Santa Cruz, she was an active researcher, teacher, and author who was known for her patience, grace, and humor. She was dedicated to making electron microscopy accessible as a research and teaching tool to the entire community.
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/03-05/nowell.asp" title="Permalink to nowell">Source</a></p>
