---
layout: post
title: "Academic Senate to discuss 'W' education requirement, growth"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 7973
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <i><br>
  UCSC's Academic Senate will hold its winter meeting on March 9. Faye Crosby, Academic Senate chair, has addressed the following letter to members of the Senate outlining issues on the agenda.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues,<br>
  <br>
  The Winter Senate meeting, to occur on March 9, 2:30 p.m., Multipurpose Room, Colleges Nine and Ten, will be devoted to oral reports and should therefore allow for plenty of open discussion. View the agenda and supporting documentation <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/07March/A07March.html">online</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Let me draw your attention to two reports in particular. The Committee on Educational Policy, chaired by Jaye Padgett, will discuss the W requirement and other aspects of general education. The Committee on Planning and Budget, chaired by Susan Gillman, will discuss issues of growth at UCSC and especially the possible creation of some professional schools.<br>
  <br>
  Your opinions and good ideas might help the discussions progress and might help shape the future of UCSC. Of course, you need to be present to be heard. The Chair of any department that has struggled with the W issue may wish to be at the March 9 meeting or to send a representative.<br>
  <br>
  Another issue on the minds of many people is the search for our chancellor. As you know from other communications that I have sent out, the search has begun. On April 9, President Dynes and the Advisory Committee will be visiting our campus. We will be sharing details with you as we learn them, and I will mention the search in my very brief introductory comments.<br>
  <br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/03-05/senate.asp" title="Permalink to senate">Source</a></p>
