---
layout: post
title: "Farmland preservation efforts to be discussed October 7"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6956
images:
---

<p>
  Throughout the state of California, farmland is being gobbled up to make way for new housing and commercial developments. In Pajaro Valley, farmland preservationists have actively opposed efforts to annex nearly 300 acres of prime farmland that the city of Watsonville is eager to convert to industrial uses.
</p>
<p>
  Come hear the latest news about farmland preservation efforts at a free public discussion on Thursday, October 7, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. The event, "Report from the Fields: Farmland Preservation Success Stories," is being cosponsored by the UCSC Center for Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems and the Community Alliance with Family Farmers (CAFF). It will be held at the Patagonia store, 415 River Street, in Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Speakers will include Michael Ableman, the founder of the Center for Urban Agriculture at Fairview Gardens, which is based on one of the oldest organic farms in southern California.
</p>
<p>
  Ableman, who has farmed the land since 1981, has firsthand experience in farmland preservation, having successfully raised the funds to preserve Fairview Gardens under an active agricultural and educational conservation easement. The farm, which is surrounded by urban development, produces some 100 varieties of fruits and vegetables. A well-known writer, photographer, and educator, Ableman lectures around the world.
</p>
<p>
  Also addressing the gathering will be Reggie Knox, program coordinator for the Lighthouse Farm Network of CAFF, and Sam Earnshaw, Central Coast regional coordinator of CAFF.
</p>
<p>
  "We are part of a broad coalition of groups working together to develop a long-term strategy for the Pajaro Valley that addresses economic and social needs while protecting farmlands and wetlands," said Knox. "We are pleased to be collaborating with the city and with Watsonville residents to develop creative land-use policies that will help us build an economically viable and culturally vibrant community."
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/10-04/farmland.html "Permalink to farmland")
