---
layout: post
title: "Nine students receive $20,000 scholarships"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6932
images:
---

<p>
  Nine talented students from regional community colleges have been awarded $20,000 scholarships to attend UCSC. Recipients receive $10,000 scholarships for each of two years, the support of a strong academic mentoring program, and assistance finding paid summer work experience in a field that complements their studies. Now in its seventh year, the scholarship program has helped dozens of community college transfer students realize their dream of a university education. "This program makes a tangible difference in the lives of students at our neighboring community colleges," said Chancellor Greenwood. "It puts a university education within the reach of students who would otherwise be unable to attend UCSC, and that's an accomplishment of which we are all very proud." The Karl S. Pister Leadership Opportunity Awards Program was established in 1993 by former UCSC Chancellor Karl S. Pister to increase opportunities for talented community college students who want to transfer to UCSC. The scholarships recognize students who have overcome adverse socioeconomic circumstances, who have a demonstrated commitment to assisting and improving the lives of others, and who might not otherwise be able to attend UCSC for financial reasons.
</p>
<p>
  Candidates are nominated by the presidents of each of 13 regional community colleges, and recipients are selected by Greenwood in consultation with the Leadership Opportunity Awards Program Screening Committee.<br>
  <br>
  A $5.2 million endowment has been established to fund the program permanently. Named scholarships honor contributors of major gifts to the program.<br>
  <br>
  A list of this year's recipients follows, with hometowns and college affiliations.<br>
  <br>
  For more information about the scholarship program or any of the recipients, call the UCSC Public Information Office at (831) 459-2495.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Bonnie R. Baker</b> of Seaside, Monterey Peninsula College (Alfred E. Hahn Scholar)
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>John Harthen Clarke</b> of San Jose, De Anza College (Adolph C. and Mary Sprague Miller Scholar)<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Darlene Christina Correa</b> of San Jose, Mission College<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Guillermo Gloria</b> of San Jose, San Jose City College (Alfred E. Hahn Scholar)<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Rebecca Ann Hare</b> of Burlingame, College of San Mateo<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Deutron Kebebew</b> of Gilroy, Gavilan College (Thomas B. Porter Scholar)
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Munish Kumar Manrao</b> of Redwood City, Canada College (Adolph C. and Mary Sprague Miller Scholar)
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Sunny Jane Gossett Rudolph</b> of Soquel, Cabrillo College (Alfred E. Hahn Scholar)
  </li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>David Dushun Ruth</b> of San Jose, Evergreen Valley College, (Neufeld-Levin Family Scholar)
  </li>
</ul>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/09-27/loa.html "Permalink to loa")
