---
layout: post
title: "Star Trek producer and former UCSC student visits Santa Cruz for November 4 lecture"
author: Barbara McKenna
post_id: 7027
images:
---

<p>
  Brannon Braga, executive producer of the television series <i>Star Trek: Voyager</i> will be in Santa Cruz on Thursday, November 4, to speak with film and digital media students and to present a public lecture and screening on the making of the television series. Braga's visit begins with a presentation to a screenwriting class taught by film and digital media professor Chip Lord. At the evening presentation, Braga will screen an episode of <i>Star Trek: Voyager</i> and discuss the making of the TV series. The evening event is free and open to the public. It takes place at 7 p.m. in the Media Theater in the Theater Arts Center. This event is sponsored by the Film and Digital Media Department and the student Film Arts Coalition. For more information, call (831) 459-3204. Braga, who studied film and video at UCSC, has served as a creative force of the UPN television series <i>Star Trek: Voyager</i> since its inception in 1995. He began his career in entertainment when he received the Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences Writing Internship. The internship led to a writing/producing post on Paramount's top-rated syndicated series <i>Star Trek: The Next Generation.</i> Braga was appointed supervising producer of <i>Star Trek: Voyager</i> when the series premiered in 1995 and became executive producer in 1998. Braga has written over 75 <i>Star Trek</i> episodes, including the historic final episode of <i>Star Trek: The Next Generation,</i> titled "All Good Things," for which he won the Hugo Award for excellence in science-fiction writing. Braga's feature film credits include <i>Star Trek: Generations</i> and <i>Star Trek: First Contact.</i> The latter became the highest grossing of the eight <i>Star Trek</i> films, reaching $150 million worldwide. Braga is currently writing <i>Mission Impossible II</i>for Paramount. He is a resident of Los Angeles.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/11-01/trek.html "Permalink to trek")
