---
layout: post
title: "New UC Washington Center breaks ground"
author: Chuck McFadden
post_id: 7015
images:
---

<p>
  UC Office of the President
</p>
<p>
  The University of California broke ground last week at its Washington Center in Washington D.C.<br>
  <br>
  When completed in the spring of 2001, the 11-story center will be a live-learn facility serving up to 280 undergraduate and graduate students and up to 10 visiting scholars. The center will offer living quarters for students and visiting scholars as well as offices and classrooms.<br>
  <br>
  The University of California currently has academic programs in the capital from UC campuses at Berkeley, Davis, Irvine, Los Angeles, San Diego, Santa Barbara, and Santa Cruz.<br>
  <br>
  UC undergraduates who come to Washington will typically spend a term in residence at the center while working and studying in the District of Columbia as part of each home campus's Washington program.<br>
  <br>
  "Over the years, students in the university's Washington programs have gained firsthand exposure to the political process while attaining incomparable experience as interns with federal agencies, Congress, the White House, policy research organizations, and interest groups," said UC President Richard C. Atkinson. "The new UC Center in Washington will enhance those educational opportunities as well as provide better facilities for scholars conducting Washington-based research."<br>
  <br>
  Larry Berman, a member and former chairman of the political science department at UC Davis, was appointed the center's director last September.<br>
  <br>
  Graduate fellows pursuing their doctoral research in Washington, D.C., will also work as teaching assistants in the center's classes of UC undergraduates.<br>
  <br>
  In addition to serving students and faculty, the center will be the Washington base for the Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, a multi-campus UC research unit whose mission is to bridge the gap between the academic and policy worlds. Also housed at the center will be the University of California's Office of Federal Governmental Relations.<br>
  <br>
  The center is being financed by a combination of public and private funds, including payments from students who will occupy the housing areas during their time in Washington.
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/10-25/ucop.center.html "Permalink to ucop")
