---
layout: post
title: "New Faculty"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/moschkovich.125.jpg
    - caption: 
  -
    - file: ../art/milanfar_peyman.125.jpg
    - caption: 
---

####

#### Judit Moschkovich

Assistant Professor of Education  
  
  
Judit Moschkovich specializes in mathematics education. Her research has focused on mathematics learning and teaching in secondary classrooms. Her work on students' conceptions of linear functions and their mathematical discussions offers insights into the ways students learn mathematics, which can support the development of effective teaching. Moschkovich is the principal investigator on a three-year NSF-funded research project that examines how bilingual Latino students participate in classroom mathematical discussions of motion problems. Moschkovich earned her B.S. in physics from the University of Minnesota and her Ph.D. in education from UC Berkeley.

####

####

**Peyman Milanfar  
**Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering   
  
Peyman Milanfar's technical interests are in the areas of signal and image processing, inverse problems, statistical detection and estimation, scientific computing, and applied mathematics. His work has applications in areas such as medical imaging, geophysics, acoustic tracking, and image-enhancement techniques. Milanfar received a B.S. in engineering mathematics from UC Berkeley and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was a consulting assistant professor of computer science at Stanford University and a senior research engineer at SRI International, a nonprofit research center in Menlo Park, where he developed signal and image-processing algorithms for such diverse applications as the detection and tracking of harmonic signatures from underwater acoustic data, multilayer motion estimation for enhancement of aerial imagery, and the synthesis of high-resolution stills from lower-resolution video through a process known as super-resolution.  
  
  
  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/12-13/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
