---
layout: post
title: "Training & Development to assess needs of campus managers, administrative
			staff"
author: Barbara McKenna
post_id: 6929
images:
---

<p>
  This year Training &amp; Development is looking at the needs of campus managers and administrative staff. Through this assessment, the unit is aiming to identify the skills needed by staff in these categories both in current and future positions.
</p>
<p>
  According to Training &amp; Development manager Sharon Cohen Barry, once the skills are identified, the unit will determine which new programs should be developed, as well as which programs they will continue to offer.<br>
  <br>
  As part of this year's assessment, the unit, in conjunction with systemwide training managers, has put the Management Skills Assessment Program and the Professional Skills Assessment Program on a one-year hiatus while each program is evaluated.<br>
  <br>
  Training &amp; Development will continue to offer programs in career development, supervisory development, performance management, communication and conflict resolution, and basic computer skills.
</p>
<p>
  Other programs that will be offered through Training &amp; Development this year include a Brown Bag Lunch Series on balancing work with the rest of one's life, and--pending funding approval--the second year of the pilot UCSC Management Development Program.
</p>
<p>
  For more information on Training &amp; Development programs, visit their Web page at <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev">www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev</a><br>
  <br>
  <font color="#AA0000">In other Training and Development news:</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>New staff:</b> Two new staff members have joined the unit. Luisa Cardoza has been hired as program assistant and Kathy Toner has joined as a training specialist. Toner's areas of specialization include team building and program evaluation.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>A Campus Training Council</b> has been established and anyone interested in participating is invited to join. The purpose of the group is to coordinate training and development activities taking place across the campus. The group will hold its second meeting in October (date and location TBA) and is preparing for its first major activity--a three-day "Train the Trainer" workshop to be held in January. For more information, call Kathy Toner at (831) 459-3934.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/09-27/hr.html "Permalink to hr")
