---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/soccer.jpg
    - caption: "Brendon Taguinod, right, scores a goal for the Slugs in a 4-2 victory over Colorado College in late October. Photo: Bob Gelwicks"
---

####

####

Men's and women's soccer teams reach NCAA tournament

For the first time ever, the men's soccer team made the NCAA Division III West Regional playoffs this fall. Led by second-year head coach Paul Holocher, the Slugs finished the regular season with a 14-5-1 record, the best in school history. Claremont-Mudd-Scripps defeated the Slugs 2-1 in the first round of the playoffs. [Read about the men's team.][1]

For the second year in a row, the women's soccer team, coached by Paul Lester, earned a spot in the NCAA Division III tournament. The Slugs went 12-4-1 in regular season play and lost in the first round of the tournament to Chapman University. [Read about the women's team.][2]

#### Adventure travel slide show and workshop

"The Golden Road . . . Overland from Scotland to Asia" is the title of a slide show by Shannon Clements and Mike Parry on Saturday, November 18, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in Classroom Unit 1. The cost is $3/students and $5/general; tickets will be available at the door.  
  
Then join Clements and Parry for an Adventure Travel Workshop on Sunday, November 19, from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the OPERS Conference Room, East Field House. The cost is $8/students and $10/general. To register for the workshop, call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2807.

#### New location for Social Sciences Dean's Office

The Social Sciences Dean's Office (117 SS 1) has moved to 2101 College Nine Apartments, and the Social Sciences Staff Human Resources/Payroll Services has moved to 2104 Building 2, College Nine Apartments. The Social Sciences Service Center will be moving at the end of November. There will be no change in e-mail addresses or phone extensions and the disruption to office services should be minimal.

#### Workshop offers help in '**Uncluttering Your Desk**'

Does your desk look like a disaster zone? Tired of searching for that important document? This workshop, titled Uncluttering Your Desk," will teach you how to deal with paper piles, mail, filing systems, and paper-retention issues. Find out how to streamline your work day with hands-on strategies and techniques for managing paper flow and clutter.

* Presenter: Farol Henderson, professional organizer with her own consulting business
* Date: Thursday, December 7
* Time: 8:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
* Fee: $70

To enroll in a workshop, e-mail workshop@cats.ucsc.edu. Please include the following information in the request: name and date of the program or workshop; employee name; employee telephone extension and e-mail address; unit and campus mailing address; employee job title; and immediate supervisor's name, phone extension, and e-mail address.

#### Regents' Professors and Lecturers

The Committee on Regents' Professors and Lecturers is soliciting nominations for 2001-02. The program brings distinguished men and women, ordinarily from nonacademic careers, to the university for an academic quarter or less. Nominations should originate from academic units and be reviewed by the appropriate divisional dean prior to submission to the committee. The deadline for nominations is November 30\. For more information, call Ann McCardy at (831) 459-3740.

#### UCSC Forum on Community Television

Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for November. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays, with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.

* November 12: "Artists and Communities: Contemporary Site Works, Part 2," talks by UCSC associate professor of art Nobuho Nagasawa and visiting lecturer Fred Wilson (repeat) (repeats November 15)
* November 19: UCSC professor of history of consciousness Gary Lease: "What are the humanities and why do they matter: The case of religion and public life" (repeat) (repeats November 22)
* November 26: Poet and writer Amiri Baraka: "The Highest Form of Knowledge Is Use" (repeat) (repeats November 29)  
  

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][3]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][4] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][5]

  

[1]: http://www.GoSlugs.com/varsity/soccer/men/msoc.html
[2]: http://www.GoSlugs.com/varsity/soccer/women/wsoc.html
[3]: ../../construction.html
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/11-13/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
