---
layout: post
title: "Bike to Work/School Day planned for October"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 619
images:
---

<p>
  Beat parking hassles, the traffic blues, and the high price of gasoline by riding your bicycle on Bike to Work/School Day on Thursday, October 5.
</p>
<p>
  Bicyclists will be treated to a free breakfast at 12 sites throughout Santa Cruz County, free commuter massages, free bike mechanical repair, and a chance to win a trip around the world.
</p>
<p>
  Free breakfast locations include the Bike Co-op at the UCSC Student Center.<br>
  <br>
  The folks at Bike to Work are serving up many great incentives to entice you to leave your car at home. How about a breakfast of Beckmann's muffins, Noah's Bagels, Martinelli juice, Jamba Juice, and Peet's coffee--free for all cyclists on Bike to Work Day.<br>
  <br>
  In addition, drastically reduced light systems, bike headlights, rear flashing lights, and batteries will be on sale for $5 at selected Bike to Work Day breakfast sites. The low-cost bike lights are provided by the Community Traffic Safety Coalition.
</p>
<p>
  "Fall is an excellent time to outfit your bike with lights as there is less daylight in the day," explains Bike to Work program director Piet Canin. "The theme for the fall event is be bright; use a light at night."
</p>
<p>
  For bike commuters who want to really light up the road at night, Light &amp; Motion will be discounting their high-end rechargeable lights at the Santa Cruz downtown breakfast site.
</p>
<p>
  For a full list of breakfast sites or other information, call Bike to Work at (831) 423-3773 or go to <a href="http://www.bike2work.com">www.bike2work.com</a>.<br>
  <br>
  Bike to Work is sponsored by the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission, Spokesman Bicycles, Bicycle Trip, New Leaf Community Market, and many other businesses and organizations in Santa Cruz County.<br>
  <br>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-25/bike.html "Permalink to bike")
