---
layout: post
title: "UC Advising Conference to address 'Tidal Wave II'"
author: Carolyn L. Crandall
post_id: 6745
images:
---

<p>
  Academic Preceptor, Kresge College
</p>
<p>
  In response to the projected dramatic increase in UC enrollments in the coming years, referred to as "Tidal Wave II," the UC Advising Conference 2000 will explore issues and topics related to this challenge. All UC faculty and staff advisers are invited to attend the conference, entitled "Riding the Wave Into the 21st Century."
</p>
<p>
  UCSC will host the annual UC Advising Conference May 18 and 19 at the Monterey Marriott Hotel and Conference Center.
</p>
<p>
  Lynda Goff, vice provost and dean of undergraduate education and professor of biology, will welcome the participants and William Ladusaw, provost of Cowell College and professor of linguistics, will give the opening address. Keynote speakers will be David Anthony, provost of Oakes College and professor of history, and Bettina Aptheker, chair and professor of women's studies.<br>
  <br>
  Workshops that will be presented include:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>"The Changing Demographics in California: Implications for Higher Education," offered by Aida Hurtado, professor of psychology, UCSC;<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>"Advising Distance Learners," offered by Edward M. Landesman, professor emeritus of mathematics, UCSC;<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>"UCSC Freshman Attrition Survey, Findings and Implications," offered by Hiroshi Fukurai, associate professor of sociology, UCSC;<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>"Helping Students Feel Empowered in the Face of Growth," offered by Frank C Andrews, professor of chemistry, UCSC;<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>"UC/Community College Educational Partnerships," offered by Barbara Love, assistant director of Transfer Partnerships, UCSC, and Donna Mekis, director of Transfer Center, Cabrillo College;<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>"Debating Affirmative Action," offered by Faye Crosby, vice provost for academic affairs and professor of psychology, UCSC.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  Advising staff from UCSC's departments, colleges, and Student Affairs Division have been collaborating on presenting the conference, which is expected to draw as many as 230 participants from the eight UC campuses.<br>
  <br>
  Funding has been provided by the UC Office of the President, the Educational Partnership Center, the deans from UCSC's five divisions, and UCSC's dean of undergraduate education.
</p>
<p>
  Information about the conference, online registration, and campus updates can be found at the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/cowell/advising_conference/">Advising Conference Web site</a>. Participants are urged to register and make their hotel reservations as soon as possible, as there are a limited number of rooms offered at the discounted rate.
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/04-17/adviconf.html "Permalink to adviconf")
