---
layout: post
title: "Annual Convocation on Teaching will focus on NES"
author: Karin Wanless
post_id: 6608
images:
---

<p>
  The sixth annual Convocation on Teaching will provide another venue for discussion of the Narrative Evaluation System (NES) prior to the winter-quarter meeting of the Academic Senate. The convocation will take place Monday, February 14, from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2. The convocation, cosponsored by the <a href="http://catsic.ucsc.edu/CTE">Center for Teaching Excellence</a> and the <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/">Academic Senate's</a> Committee on Teaching, will explore the subject: "NES and Pedagogy: Are Narrative Evaluations Important to Teaching and Learning at UCSC?" Panelists who reflect the range of opinions on campus will give short presentations, which will be followed by a general discussion open to everyone attending. Panelists will include Carolyn Dean, associate professor of art history; Daniel Guevara, associate professor of philosophy; Barbara Rogoff, professor of psychology; Anthony Tromba, professor of mathematics; and Juan Caballero, undergraduate student, Cowell College. The convocation will focus on the pedagogical aspects of the NES and will be a forum to answer the question: What, if anything, would a proposed change in the Narrative Evaluation System imply about the quality of teaching and learning in UCSC classrooms? Faculty, graduate and undergraduate students, and other interested people are invited to attend and join in the discussion.
</p>
<hr>
<p>
  <b>Previous stories on the NES:</b>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../01-31/nesforum2.html">NES forums continue; decision expected at senate meeting</a> (Jan. 31, 2000)
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../01-24/nesforum1.html">First 'narratives' forum produces two quite different perspectives</a> (Jan. 24, 2000)
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../01-10/nesforum.html">Continuing the discussion of the NES</a> (Jan. 10, 2000)
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../12-06/narratives.html">Senate narrowly postpones vote on narrative evaluations</a> (Dec. 6, 1999)
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../11-22/narratives.html">Proposal to eliminate 'narratives' goes before Academic Senate</a> (Nov. 22, 1999)
</p>
<hr>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/02-14/nesconv.html "Permalink to nesconv")
