---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 715
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Call for Regents' Professors and Lecturers</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">"The Committee on Regents' Professors and Lecturers is soliciting nominations for 2001-02. The program brings distinguished men and women, ordinarily from nonacademic careers, to the university for an academic quarter or less. Nominations should originate from academic units and be reviewed by the appropriate divisional dean prior to submission to the committee. The deadline for nominations is November 30. For more information call Ann McCardy at (831) 459-3740.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Treat yourself to a lunch-break massage</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Students in the Recreation Office's Holistic Health Program are offering soothing, nurturing, relaxing, tension-melting chair massages at several campus locations on Thursdays in November. The cost is $10 for a 20-minute session. You must sign up in advance, and enrollment is limited. Times are the same for all dates and locations: 11:30-11:50 a.m., 11:55 a.m.-12:15 p.m., 12:20-12:40 p.m., 12:45-1:05 p.m., and 1:10-1:30 p.m. Dates and locations are listed below. For more information or to sign up, call (831) 459-2668.</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 2: University Business Park</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 9: Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 16:</font> OPERS Conference Room at the East Field House
  </li>
  <li>November 30: Women's Center
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Cardiac Pacer 5-Mile Run on November 4</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">UCSC Intramural Sports presents the 52nd running of the Cardiac Pacer 5-Mile Run, the oldest run in Santa Cruz County, on Saturday, November 4, at 10 a.m. Enjoy beautiful redwoods and stunning vistas in a challenging 5-mile cross-country style run. The entry fee is $2. The race begins at the East Field, next to the pool. For more information, call (831) 459-4220 or e-mail kdgivens@cats.ucsc.edu.</font>
</p>
<p>
  <font color="#003399"><b>Free previews of course on effective business writing</b></font><b><br>
  <br></b>The ability to write clearly and persuasively is one of the most valuable skills a person can have. Yvonne Alexander, of Alexander Communications, has been teaching writing seminars at UCSC for several years, and she will be offering a one-day seminar, titled "Effective Business Writing," scheduled for Wednesday, February 21, 2001. On Thursday, November 2, you can attend a one-hour preview presentation, "Writing for Results," in which Alexander will show you how to get to the point, write clearly, make a good impression, and save valuable time. Sessions will be held at 10:30 and 11:45 a.m. and at 1 p.m. To register for the one-hour workshop preview, call (831) 459-5565.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Upgrade your computer skills</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">This fall, Training and Development is offering a wide array of classes for the campus community, including technical training in FileMaker Pro, Excel, and Word, as well as classes in publishing, the web, and presentation. See detailed course descriptions on the</font> <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev/">Training and Development web site.</a> <font color="#000000">For more information or to enroll, e-mail workshop@cats.ucsc.edu.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">UCSC Forum on Community Television</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for October. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays, with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>October 29: 2000 Martin Luther King Jr. Convocation featuring Susan Taylor (repeats Nov. 1)
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/10-30/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
