---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

The _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Santa Cruz County Sentinel_ ran stories** **on UCSC's plans for a Silicon Valley Center at the proposed NASA Research Park. Both articles quoted** Chancellor Greenwood** extensively. **Manuel Pastor **of Latin American and Latino studies was also quoted in the _Mercury News_ article.

**Karl Gebhardt, **a Hubble postdoctoral fellow in astronomy and astrophysics, was interviewed by the BBC for a television documentary on black holes.

**Keith Warner**, a doctoral student in environmental studies, penned an op-ed for the _Los Angeles Times_ about river management in California and the environmental impacts of dams.

KION (Channel 46) did a "Travels with Romney" segment on summer drop-in programs at the Seymour Center at Long Marine Lab. The story featured visitor programs manager **Lisa Borok,** interns (and alumni) **Lejla Borovac** and **Nina Ball,** and lots of kids and families enjoying the center's Creature Feature program.

**Carter Wilson** of community studies was among those singing the praises of local photographer Gypsy Ray, who is moving to Ireland. Other UCSC friends of the artist who were interviewed include **Geoff Dunn**, **Elaine Kihara, **and former UCSC staff photographer** Al Lowry**.  
  
An article in the _Monterey County Herald_ featured studies of krill in Monterey Bay by **Baldo Marinovic,** a researcher in the Institute of Marine Sciences. As part of a larger project to explore the nation's marine sanctuaries using a one-person submarine, _DeepWorker;_Marinovic was able to observe the bioluminescence of krill at a depth of 600 feet in Monterey.

  
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/07-31/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
