---
layout: post
title: "Campus receives $24 million in private gifts and grants for 1999-2000"
author: Francine Tyler
post_id: 557
images:
---

<p>
  UC Santa Cruz received $24.3 million in private support during the fiscal year that ended June 30, according to the campus's Development Office. The support includes $6 million from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The fiscal year 1999-2000 marked the fourth consecutive year the campus has received record-breaking levels of private gift support. "The sustained increase in private philanthropic support is testimony to the continued excellence of UCSC's programs in the arts, engineering, humanities, and natural and social sciences," said Chancellor Greenwood. "In particular, recognition from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, in the form of two investigator appointments, lifts the campus to an entirely new level in regard to biomedical and engineering research." David Haussler, professor of computer science and director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, was selected as a full investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI), and Yishi Jin, assistant professor of biology, was selected as an assistant investigator. The two are among 48 scientists selected nationwide for the prestigious appointments. With the addition of the HHMI awards, this year's fundraising total at UCSC was 31 percent more than that received the previous year, when nearly $18.5 million was contributed to campus programs, scholarships, and fellowships. In addition to major gifts, UC Santa Cruz receives gifts from many individual donors who provide significant support to the campus annually. Campus supporters gave $1.4 million through UCSC's Annual Giving program this past year, with $1.1 million coming through the Telephone Outreach Program. These donors are primarily alumni and parents, with matching funds from corporations. Trustees of the UC Santa Cruz Foundation, which supports UCSC through its private fundraising efforts, gave over $930,000 to the campus this past year. Ronald P. Suduiko, vice chancellor for University Relations, credited a number of sources for the fundraising achievements this past year. "Our success is due to the generosity and personal support of donors who include many alumni, parents, and friends of the university; the excellence of the university as exemplified by the work of our faculty, staff, and students; and the commitment of our University Relations team," he said. The bulk of the funding this past year came from the following sources: foundations, 32 percent; individuals, 26 percent; and the business sector, 11 percent. Other sources included institutions and community and campus organizations, totaling 31 percent. Major private gifts or grants received by UCSC during the past year included:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>A $2 million charitable remainder trust from Kit Mura-Smith, a former re-entry student who graduated from UCSC in 1975. The trust equally supports McHenry Library and the Services for Transfer and Re-Entry Students program.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $1.5 million grant from the Noyce Foundation in Palo Alto to create and maintain a New Teacher Center in Silicon Valley, dedicated to teacher development. An additional $420,000 grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation for the New Teacher Center in Santa Cruz provides support for programs aimed at outreach and teacher certification.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $1 million grant from the W. M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles to support research at the Center for the Molecular Biology of RNA.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $1 million grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for interdisciplinary research by the Division of Natural Sciences and the Baskin School of Engineering on nervous system development and function in a tiny nematode worm.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>Two gifts totaling $660,500 from the estates of Thomas and Roberta Lumb, establishing the Keck Remote Observing Fund and the Thomas and Roberta Lumb Endowment Fund.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $625,000 David and Lucile Packard Fellowship for Science and Engineering for Ali Shakouri, an assistant professor of electrical engineering in the Baskin School of Engineering. This was the sixth consecutive year a UCSC researcher has garnered the award, which is one of the nation's most prestigious honors for young faculty members.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $500,000 gift from Helen and Sanford Diller in support of the Helen and Sanford Diller Family Endowment for Jewish Studies to create a new Jewish studies minor. An additional $60,000 grant from the Koret Foundation of San Francisco also supports the program.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $300,000 gift from Donald C. and Sally Allen to establish the Henry Bachmann Endowed Chair in Astronomical Instrumentation.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A gift of $250,000 to establish the Ali Akbar Khan Endowment for Classical Indian Music, which supports a new program in classical Indian music. The donation was made by Sid and Anu Maitra, Arjun and Kiran Malhotra, Kamil and Talat Hasan, and Shiv and Kiran Nadar.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $235,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to bring a greater transborder focus to Latin American and Latino studies and the Chicano/Latino Research Center. The grant supports a visiting fellows program and a conference, aiding collaborations between scholars and community activists.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $150,000 award from the Pew Charitable Trusts to study the use of marine reserves to manage and protect the Bering Sea marine ecosystem. James Estes, a marine ecologist with UCSC and the U.S. Geological Survey, received the award and was named a Pew Marine Conservation Fellow.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $171,000 gift from Tektronix Inc. in Beaverton, Oregon, to purchase equipment for the Baskin School of Engineering's core teaching laboratories.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $150,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation to fund the development of a professional M.S. degree in bioinformatics.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A $135,000 grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and two grants totaling $100,000 from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for Shakespeare Santa Cruz. The grants provide general support and fund the creation of a long-range development plan.<br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>A grant for $80,000 from the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange in McLean, Virginia, to study trade and investment links between Taiwan and mainland China.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/08-28/funds.html "Permalink to funds")
