---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 663
images:
---

<p>
  KNTV (Channel 11) interviewed <b>Martha Zuniga,</b> associate professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental biology, at the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose, where she took part in a celebration of National Hispanic Heritage Month. Zuniga is among ten Latino scientists featured in an ongoing exhibit at the museum. She was also interviewed by <i>Nuevo Mundo,</i> the Spanish-language edition of the <i>San Jose Mercury News,</i> and <a href="http://www.technowtv.com/news/">Tech Now! News</a>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Sacramento Bee</i> turned to sociologist <b>Craig Reinarman</b> for a story about philanthropist George Soros, a critic of the U.S. government's drug war and a major supporter of Proposition 36. The initiative would mandate treatment instead of jail or prison for anybody arrested for possession of illegal drugs for personal use.
</p>
<p>
  The BBC's Natural History Unit came to Long Marine Laboratory recently to film <b>Terrie Williams,</b> associate professor of biology, for a program about Williams's research on dolphin physiology. The 30-minute program will air during prime time on BBC2 and will also accompany an animal physiology course offered by the U.K.'s Open University.
</p>
<p>
  Former Chancellor <b>Karl Pister's</b> work on building the collaboration between UC and K-12 schools in California was the subject of a recent column in the <i>Contra Costa Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Science</i> magazine about the "two-body problem"--married couples trying to find research positions together--featured one couple who managed to solve the problem, <b>Elise Knittle</b> and <b>Quentin Williams,</b> both professors of earth sciences<b>.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Daily Independent</i> in Ridgecrest (Kern County) wrote a story following up on two teachers who attended an intensive 12-day marine biology summer course at UCSC and returned to their classrooms this fall eager to share what they'd learned with their students.
</p>
<p>
  The Arboretum's <b>Brett Hall, Stephen McCabe,</b> and <b>Rick Flores</b> were featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the California native plant collection at the Arboretum. The story included advice on how homeowners can use native plants to attract birds and other wildlife to their yards.<br>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/10-09/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
