---
layout: post
title: "UCSC women featured at second annual women's leadership conference"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6577
images:
---

<p>
  Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and other top women administrators from UCSC will be participating in the Second Annual Women's Conference sponsored by the Center for Gender Equity at UC San Francisco in March. The two-day gathering, "Women Leaders: A Symposium for Women in University Settings," will be held March 9 and 10 at the Cathedral Hill Hotel, 1101 Van Ness Ave., in San Francisco. The event includes a wide variety of workshops, speakers, and networking events, as well as a Thursday evening reception honoring women in history. An addition this year is the "Galleria," a marketplace of artisans, including an on-site bookstore. The symposium features 38 speakers covering one of three areas: leadership, communication, and personal development. The three keynote speakers will be Chin-Ning Chu, author of <i>Do Less, Achieve More</i> and <i>Thick Face Black Heart;</i> Julianne Malveaux, syndicated columnist, economist, and author of <i>Sex, Lies and Stereotypes: Perspectives of a Mad Economist;</i> and Pat Heim, author of the widely read <i>Hardball for Women.</i> A highlight of the conference will be a panel of top-level UC women who will share insights on what it takes to become a leader within the UC system. Participants in the session, "Power, Performance, and Position: Strategies for Highly Effective Leadership," include Greenwood, UCLA Vice Chancellor Claudia Mitchell-Kernan, and UC Santa Barbara Vice Chancellor France Cordova. California Alumni Association President Irene Miura will act as moderator. Other UCSC participants include Julia Armstrong-Zwart, assistant chancellor for human resources, on "Leading with Soul: Developing an Authentic Leadership Style," and Robin Santos, acting director of the Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Office, on "Lesbian, Bi, Transgendered, Questioning, and Straight Women: Strengthening Our Relationships in the Workplace." Registration is required to attend the symposium. The cost is $200 through January 14, $250 through March 3, and $300 on site. Additional information on registration and the symposium is available on the <a href="http://www.ucsf.edu/cge">Center for Gender Equity Web site</a> or by contacting Michelle Whitish at (415) 476-5222. The UCSF Center for Gender Equity programs include lectures; conferences focused on health, leadership, and public advocacy issues for women; crisis-intervention counseling for rape survivors; self-defense classes; support groups; and community outreach.
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/01-31/equity.html "Permalink to equity")
