---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hwy17_safety.120.jpg
    - caption: 
---

####

####

Tips for safe driving

With students and faculty returning to campus, the California Highway Patrol offers some tips for safely negotiating Highway 17.

* Slow down
* Never drive faster than the speed limit
* Slow down even more during bad weather (including fog)
* Brake before you're in a curve
* Drive the advisory speeds given for curves
* Look as far ahead as possible

For more information, call the California Highway Patrol in Santa Cruz at (831) 662-0511 or in San Jose at (408) 467-5400. To get an update on road conditions on state highways, including Highway 17, call the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) road conditions hotline at 800-427-ROAD (7623).

#### Receiving to hold annual public auction

UC Receiving will be holding its annual public auction in early October. If you have any surplus equipment in "sellable" condition that you would like to surplus, please contact Steve Goldie at steveg@cats.ucsc.edu by September 22. He'll be arranging pick up. Happy fall cleaning.

#### Map Room grand opening

Come celebrate the grand opening of the new Map Room at the Science Library on Thursday, September 21, at 4:30 p.m. There will be delicious free refreshments, displays, and demonstrations of Map Room resources, and a ribbon cutting ceremony by Chancellor Greenwood. The Map Room has been relocated from cramped quarters in McHenry Library to a spacious new state-of-the-art facility on the first floor of the Science Library.

#### UCSC Forum on Community Television

Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for September. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.

* September 3: Ravi Rajan: "Modernizing Nature: Tropical Forests, Scientific Experts, and the Contested Legacy of British Colonial Ecodevelopment: 1800-2000" (repeat) (rebroadcast Sept. 6)
* September 10: Angela Davis: "The Prisoner Exchange: The Underside of Civil Rights" (repeat) (rebroadcast Sept. 13)
* September 17: Michael Cowan: "America Is Hard to Find" (rebroadcast Sept. 20)
* September 24: "Awakening": A new film by Chip Lord (rebroadcast Sept. 27)

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][1]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][2] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][3]

  

[1]: ../../construction.html
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[3]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-11/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
