---
layout: post
title: "Recipients of named scholarships announced"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 624
images:
---

<p>
  The campus has announced the recipients of named scholarships for community college transfer students. Named scholarships honor contributors of major gifts, in this case to the Karl S. Pister Leadership Opportunity Awards (KSPLOA) program, which provides $20,000 scholarships to regional community college students who transfer to UC Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Named scholarships have been established by generous UCSC contributors. The recipients for the 2000-01 year are listed below, followed by the recipient's hometown and community college affiliation. The program is supported by a $5.2 million permanent endowment.<br>
</p>
<h3>
  Alfred E. Hahn Scholars
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Kassandra Rossiter of Milpitas; San Jose City College
  </li>
  <li>Joshua M. Luke of San Jose; De Anza College
  </li>
  <li>Arlene Cazares of San Jose; Mission College
  </li>
  <li>Janice Domanic of Pacific Grove; Monterey Peninsula College
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>
  Adolph C. and Mary Sprague Miller Scholars
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Jorge Mendez of Salinas; Hartnell College
  </li>
  <li>Marisa Cidre of San Jose; Evergreen Valley College.
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>
  Santa Cruz Business and Professional Women's Club Scholar
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Elizabeth V. Delgadillo of Gilroy; Gavilan College
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  In addition, recipients of named KSPLOA scholarships who are returning for their second year in the program are:
</p>
<h3>
  Alfred E. Hahn Scholars
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Bonnie Baker of Seaside; Monterey Peninsula College
  </li>
  <li>Guillermo Gloria of San Jose; San Jose City College
  </li>
  <li>Sunny Jane Gossett Rudolph of Soquel; Cabrillo College
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>
  Adolph C. and Mary Sprague Miller Scholars
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Munish Manrao of Redwood City; Canada College
  </li>
  <li>John Clarke of San Jose; De Anza College
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>
  Neufeld-Levin Family Scholar
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>David Ruth of San Jose; Evergreen Valley College
  </li>
</ul>
<h3>
  Thomas B. Porter Scholar
</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Deutron Kebebew of Gilroy; Gavilan College
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <br>
  This year, in addition to the seven named scholars listed above, five students received scholarships through the program, which was established in 1993 by former UCSC Chancellor Karl S. Pister to make it easier for community college students to transfer to UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  Recipients receive $10,000 scholarships for each of two years, as well as the support of a strong academic mentoring program and assistance finding paid summer work experience in a field that complements their studies.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The scholarships recognize students who have overcome adverse socioeconomic circumstances, who have a demonstrated commitment to assisting and improving the lives of others, and who might not otherwise be able to attend UCSC for financial reasons. Candidates are nominated by the presidents of each of 13 regional community colleges, and recipients are selected by UCSC Chancellor Greenwood in consultation with the Leadership Opportunity Awards Program Screening Committee.<br>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-25/loa.html "Permalink to loa")
