---
layout: post
title: "NASA, University of California to form landmark partnership"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 714
images:
---

<p>
  NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin and University of California President Richard Atkinson have announced an historic partnership to create a world-class educational research-and-development campus focusing on innovation and scientific discovery. The campus will be located at the proposed NASA Research Park in Silicon Valley.<br>
  <br>
  The announcement was made during a news conference October 25 at NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field.<br>
  <br>
  "The innovations and scientific discoveries of the future will not come from NASA, industry or universities alone. They will come from us working together and making the most of the special attributes that each of us brings to the table," Goldin said.
</p>
<p>
  "I am delighted that NASA Ames, which has critical R&amp;D responsibilities in information technology, biotechnology, and nanotechnology, is partnering with one of the world's best public higher education systems. This partnership with UC will enhance the ability of NASA to deliver the technologies necessary for the achievement of the nation's goals in space and aeronautics, and allow America to lead and have an impact on every facet of science and technology."<br>
  <br>
  "UC and NASA scientists will work together on advances in science and technology that will drive new industries and provide new products benefiting California's economy," said Atkinson. "UC Santa Cruz will serve as a portal to the UC system for Silicon Valley to connect UC's intellectual resources with the specific interests and needs of Silicon Valley, NASA, the state, and the nation."<br>
  <br>
  "Our goal is to develop a world-class, shared-use R&amp;D campus by partnering with industry, academia, and nonprofits in the NASA Research Park," said NASA Ames Research Center Director Dr. Henry McDonald. "Our collaborative research with UC will include information technology, biotechnology, planetary sciences, nanotechnology, astrobiology, and education. We hope to develop unique new laboratories and research funding opportunities with our NASA Research Park partners to pursue revolutionary new technologies and to develop new ideas to improve the region's education infrastructure."<br>
  <br>
  "This partnership will foster a world-class center for education and for research and development. Our plans include the creation and testing of new models for delivering education and conducting research that capitalize on Silicon Valley technology and the rich math and science environment at NASA Ames Research Center," added UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. "Through the establishment of the UC Santa Cruz Silicon Valley Center at the proposed NASA Research Park and our recently announced 'Collaborative' with San Jose State University and Foothill-DeAnza Community College District, we will provide education programs that will work to bridge the digital divide and address Silicon Valley's workforce needs," Greenwood said.<br>
  <br>
  The agreement between the parties refers to a Preliminary Land Use Plan for the NASA Research Park that reserves a 40-acre site for university partners, with 25 acres assured for UC in furtherance of collaborations in education, research, and public service.
</p>
<p>
  UC plans to build a minimum of 600,000 square feet of new construction in the research park and to have at least 2,000 students attending classes by the end of their 10-year build-out period. UC and NASA agreed to explore the construction of housing to be provided by UC for students, staff, and faculty.<br>
  <br>
  NASA Ames Research Center recently announced the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process under the National Environmental Policy Act regulations to develop the land at Moffett Field under NASA ownership. The proposed developments include the area called the NASA Research Park in which the academic, industry, and nonprofit partners hope to conduct their collaborative research and education programs.
</p>
<p>
  The University of California is conducting a similar environmental process under state law, the Environmental Impact Report (EIR). Upon the successful completion of both the EIS and EIR, a Land Use Agreement will be signed and construction will begin.<br>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/10-30/nasa.html "Permalink to nasa")
