---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 597
images:
---

<p>
  New findings on chronic lead contamination in San Francisco Bay were the focus of stories in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, San Francisco Examiner, San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and on the <i>Environment Show</i> on National Public Radio, KRON (Channel 4), KTVU (Channel 2), and KGO radio. Featured in the stories were <b>Douglas Steding,</b> a doctoral candidate in Earth sciences and lead author of the study, and <b>Russell Flegal,</b> professor and chair of environmental toxicology. Steding was also interviewed by <i>Geotimes</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  McHenry Library staffer <b>Trent Eglin</b> penned an op-ed for the <i>Santa Cruz County Sentinel</i> taking UC to task for its differential treatment of administrators and staff employees.
</p>
<p>
  Any time subliminal advertising hits the news, psychologist <b>Anthony Pratkanis's</b> phone starts to ring. That was the case last week when news of possible monkey business in George W. Bush's presidential campaign ads made headlines. Among the callers were ABC News and several newspapers around the country.
</p>
<p>
  Alan Chadwick, the inspiration behind what is now the <b>Alan Chadwick Garden</b> on campus, was the subject of a recent KSCO radio program. . . . The <i>Santa Cruz County Sentinel</i> did a nice photo spread in advance of the <b>Farm &amp; Garden's</b> annual fall plant sale.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-18/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
