---
layout: post
title: "UC joins Worker Rights Consortium on trial basis"
author: Mary Spletter
post_id: 6743
images:
---

<p>
  <b>The following statement was released today (Friday, April 7) by V. Wayne Kennedy, UC senior vice president--business and finance:</b><br>
  <br>
  After careful consideration and consultation with numerous members of the university's faculty, staff, students, and student organizations, the University of California has decided to become a member of the Worker Rights Consortium on a year-long trial basis, effective immediately. The decision affects all 10 UC campuses.<br>
  <br>
  The Worker Rights Consortium is an organization devoted to monitoring worker conditions in factories around the world that manufacture products intended for university licensure, such as apparel. The university is joining the consortium on a trial basis to further evaluate the organization's progress toward effective monitoring of factory conditions.
</p>
<p>
  The work of the UC Advisory Group on Monitoring and Enforcement Issues will continue its work under UC Berkeley Vice Chancellor Horace Mitchell.<br>
  <br>
  The university has taken this step in order to make clear its commitment to ensuring that the workers who produce the goods sold with University of California identification are treated fairly and humanely and work under safe and decent working conditions.<br>
  <br>
  Along with Harvard University, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Michigan, and Ohio State University, the University of California will continue to participate in the Independent University Initiative. This Harvard-initiated study brings together a diverse group of experts to visit factories in seven countries to gather accurate, firsthand information on working conditions. Results of the Independent University Initiative study are expected this summer.<br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/04-10/workers.html "Permalink to workers")
