---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hwy17_safety.120.jpg
    - caption: 
---

#### Realize your full potential as an athlete

Sports psychologist and author Jerry Lynch will give a presentation titled "Running & Racing with a Warriors Heart: The Secret Strategy of Champions" on Monday, October 2, at 7 p.m. in the Cowell College Conference Room. Lynch has been associated with hundreds of world and national champions over the past 25 years, and he's learned about what it takes to compete at your best and win. This 1 1/2 hour clinic will help you get the most out of yourself, experience passion for your sport, and achieve a more joyful approach to your workouts. A book signing will follow the event. Admission is $8 for UCSC students/ $10 general. Sponsored by the Recreation Department and the cross-country team. For more information, call (831) 459-2806.

#### Professor Hankamer receives birthday tribute

In honor of his 60th birthday, linguistics professor Jorge Hankamer received a festschrift from dozens of colleagues, friends, students, and former students. The festschrift is traditionally a volume of writings by different authors that honors a specific person. This particular publication, masterminded by Linguistics Department faculty and staff, is electronic and consists of roughly 45 "squibs" (short papers on linguistics) and birthday greetings; the site even includes digital movies and a watercolor jpeg. [Festschrift web site][1].

#### Register for fall recreation classes

Staff, faculty, and the community may register for fall recreation classes beginning Wednesday, September 27, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Stop by the Recreation Office to sign up for Adventure Outings, Holistic Health, Kayaking, Rock Climbing, Outdoor Skills, Wilderness First Aid, and many more classes and workshops. Beginning Thursday, September 28, phone-in registrations will be accepted (have your credit card ready). For more information, pick up a copy of the UCSC _Fall 2000 Recreation, Intramural and Sports Guide_ or call (831) 459-2806.

#### Noontime yoga classes

The Recreation Office is offering Drop-In Yoga and Yoga/Pilates classes this fall.   
  
**Yoga** classes take place every Friday through December 8. Classes are from noon to 1 p.m. in the Martial Arts Room at the East Field House.  
  
**Yoga /Pilates** begins Wednesday, October 4, and will run every Wednesday through December 6. Classes are from noon to 1 p.m. in the Activity Room at the East Field House.

Join a rapidly growing number of staff and faculty who have discovered this healthy, inexpensive way to exercise. For more information, call (831) 459-2668.

#### Tips for safe driving

With students and faculty returning to campus, the California Highway Patrol offers some tips for safely negotiating Highway 17.

* Slow down
* Never drive faster than the speed limit
* Slow down even more during bad weather (including fog)
* Brake before you're in a curve
* Drive the advisory speeds given for curves
* Look as far ahead as possible

For more information, call the California Highway Patrol in Santa Cruz at (831) 662-0511 or in San Jose at (408) 467-5400. To get an update on road conditions on state highways, including Highway 17, call the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) road conditions hotline at 800-427-ROAD (7623).

#### Safety training classes offered by Environmental Health and Safety

Listed below is the schedule of safety training classes offered by EH&S. All classes are free but registration is required. All classes are at the Cowell Health Center. To register, go to the [EH&S web site][2] or call (831) 459-4840.  
  
**Ergonomics**  
October 19, 10 - 11 a.m.  
January 26, 2 - 3 p.m.  
May 29, 1:30 - 2:30 p.m.  
  
**Injury Prevention for Managers**  
December 13, 2:30 - 4 p.m.  
April 13, 10:30 a.m. - noon

**New Employee Training** (Health and safety information)  
November 20, 10:30 a.m. - noon  
February 23, 10:30 a.m. - noon  
May 17, 1:30 - 3 p.m.

#### UCSC Forum on Community Television

Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for September. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.

* September 24: "Awakening": A new film by Chip Lord (rebroadcast Sept. 27)

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][3]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][4] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][5]

  

[1]: http://ling.ucsc.edu/Jorge
[2]: http://ehs.ucsc.edu/
[3]: ../../construction.html
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/09-25/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
