---
layout: post
title: "OP administrators looking at staff issues"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6835
images:
---

<p>
  Recognizing that the university needs to work harder to attract and retain good employees, administrators "at the highest levels" of UC's Office of the President are considering several workplace enhancements to maintain the university's competitiveness as an employer. "They are definitely looking at recruitment and retention issues," said Kathy Day-Huh, outgoing chair of the <a href="http://www.ucop.edu/cucsa/">Council of UC Staff Assemblies</a> (CUCSA). Day-Huh, executive assistant for the Miller Institute for Basic Research in Science at UC Berkeley, was on campus recently for CUCSA's spring meeting. CUCSA was established in 1974 to support communication with the Office of the President on behalf of nonrepresented staff. The council is composed of two delegates from each campus, the Office of the President, and the national labs who meet on a quarterly basis. "We are a funnel of information," said Day-Huh. At UCSC, up to 12 staff members can participate on the campuswide <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/sab/tree/">Staff Advisory Board</a>. Two board members are selected to serve two-year appointments as CUCSA delegates. UCSC's current delegates are Elaine Wedegaertner, associate registrar, and Peter Phillips, senior custodial supervisor. "It's been a very positive experience," said Wedegaertner, whose term ends this fall. "It's gratifying to see things come to fruition." Although CUCSA does not address terms and conditions of employment, the council has exercised its advisory role on numerous issues, including the extension of health benefits to domestic partners, the creation of catastrophic leave policies, and the adoption of the new Veteran's Day holiday. The council is currently advocating for the creation of faculty/staff partnerships on the campuses to enhance the workplace environment. "Right now, in the year 2000, we're looking at a new working environment," said Day-Huh. "Compared to 20 years ago, employees are more professional, staff have different and often complex responsibilities, and we are accountable on more issues. Faculty also may do a lot of their own clerical work now, so working relationships between faculty and staff have changed dramatically in the past 20 years." Faculty/staff partnerships could help offices focus on "best practices" to avoid problems, and they could provide resources when conflicts arise. Each campus could develop its own vision as part of the growing focus on "work/life" issues, said incoming CUCSA chair Ginger Birkholm, a legal analyst at UC Irvine. "With all the cuts of the early 1990s that haven't been restored, staff in some areas feel underappreciated," said Birkholm. "We're all working harder and longer, and feeling tremendous pressure without necessarily feeling appreciated for our efforts. Ultimately, we are all here to further the mission of the university, which is teaching, research, and public service." As the university braces for the enormous enrollment growth associated with "Tidal Wave II," issues of staff morale and workplace enhancement are at the fore, said Birkholm, who looks forward to assuming her CUCSA leadership role in the fall. "We all know we're not going to get rich working at the university, so why do we stay?" she asked. "It's because we're dedicated to the mission of the university, we like the atmosphere, and we're proud of the product. Working for the university gives us all those intangible rewards." Every workforce faces its share of challenges, but working together to find solutions is essential to long-range success, said Birkholm. "There are wonderful things being done on the different campuses, and part of our role is to share that information and encourage campuses to learn from one another," she said.
</p>
<hr>
<br>
<br>
To reach a member of the UCSC Staff Advisory Board, call (831) 459-3371, send e-mail to <a href="mailto:staffadv@cats.ucsc.edu">staffadv@cats.ucsc.edu</a>, or visit the SAB web site at: <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/sab/tree/">www2.ucsc.edu/sab/tree/</a>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/05-22/cucsa.html "Permalink to cucsa")
