---
layout: post
title: "Dual admissions program launched by UCSC and 14 community colleges"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6717
images:
---

<p>
  UCSC is teaming up with 14 regional community colleges to increase the number of students transferring from community colleges to the University of California. UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood is collaborating with the presidents of community colleges in Silicon Valley and the Monterey Bay Area to make it easier for students to transfer to UC campuses. As a result of the first meeting of the newly formed Regional Council, made up of Greenwood and her counterparts at each of the schools, participants have launched a dual admissions program that guarantees community college students a spot at UCSC after successful completion of their first two years of course work. "By offering a clear pathway to the university, dual admissions takes the uncertainty out of the transfer process," said Foothill College President Bernadine Chuck Fong. "Students know that once they have met the basic requirements, there will already be a spot at UCSC waiting for them. This program allows us to communicate our message of encouraging transfer much earlier, and it keeps the student's long-term educational goals at the forefront." Dual admissions is the first initiative of the Regional Council, which has the overarching goal of supporting transfer-related activities, such as advising, campus visits, and staff assistance. "We know that many of our students aspire to transfer to the University of California, and the Regional Council's goal is to make that vision a reality for more students," said President Chui L. Tsang of San Jose City College. "Pooling our resources will allow us to do more for greater numbers of students." In addition to UCSC, participating colleges are:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Cabrillo College, Aptos
  </li>
  <li>Canada College, Redwood City
  </li>
  <li>College of San Mateo, San Mateo
  </li>
  <li>De Anza College, Cupertino
  </li>
  <li>Evergreen Valley College, San Jose
  </li>
  <li>Foothill College, Los Altos Hills
  </li>
  <li>Gavilan College, Gilroy
  </li>
  <li>Hartnell College, Salinas
  </li>
  <li>Merced College, Merced
  </li>
  <li>Mission College, Santa Clara
  </li>
  <li>Monterey Peninsula College, Monterey
  </li>
  <li>San Jose City College, San Jose
  </li>
  <li>Skyline College, San Bruno
  </li>
  <li>West Valley College, Saratoga
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  To increase the university's visibility on community college campuses, UCSC is hiring additional outreach counselors and advisers to work at the 14 colleges that make up the Regional Council. The outreach counselors will visit the schools and collaborate with college staff on facilitating the transfer process. Unlike existing outreach activities funded by the UCSC Admissions Office, which encourage students to attend UCSC, this new funding supports transfers to any UC campus.<br>
  <br>
  "Of course, we will be thrilled if they choose UC Santa Cruz, but that's our secondary concern," said Greenwood. "Our first priority is to help students prepare to attend any UC campus."<br>
  <br>
  Increasing the number of students who transfer from a community college to the university is a goal shared by both institutions. A memorandum of understanding designed to encourage such transfers was signed in 1997 by Chancellor Thomas Nussbaum of the California Community Colleges and UC President Richard Atkinson.<br>
  <br>
  The dual admissions program builds on the success of a similar effort begun last year at Cabrillo College in Aptos. The Student Transfer Education Pathway, or STEP program, was designed to support the transfer of Cabrillo students to UCSC by offering them special services.<br>
  <br>
  "As a group, community colleges share many of the same goals, and we're pleased that our STEP program paved the way for a broader dual admissions initiative," said Cabrillo College President John Hurd, who endorsed the Regional Council's efforts. "The Regional Council provides a needed forum for the discussion of new ideas, and it allows us to work collectively in partnership with the university."<br>
  <br>
  Other initiatives under consideration include improved articulation services, faculty-to-faculty professional development opportunities, and earlier identification of students who are considering transferring. UCSC has agreed to provide full articulation services at each Regional Council campus annually, which means that each community college course will be evaluated to see if students can count the course as a prerequisite for a UC major and if it fullfills a UCSC general education requirement.<br>
  <br>
  Members of the Regional Council will meet two or three times a year, and a working group is meeting on an ongoing basis.
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/04-03/college.html "Permalink to college")
