---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 703
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Catch a ride on the bike trailer</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Is the long climb up Bay Street and Coolidge Drive keeping you from riding your bike to campus?</font> <font color="#000000">The Bike Trailer/Van will pick you up at the Marcelo's parking lot at Bay and Mission and deliver you to a convenient location on campus. Monday through Friday, the trailer leaves Marcelo's every 15 minutes from 6:45 until 10 a.m. with room for 14 bikes each trip.</font> <font color="#000000">There is no charge for this service.</font> <font color="#000000">For more information, call (831) 459-3228 or visit the</font> <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Taps web site.</a>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Treat yourself to a lunch-break massage</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Students in the Recreation Office's Holistic Health Program are offering soothing, nurturing, relaxing, tension-melting chair massages at several campus locations on Thursdays in November. The cost is $10 for a20-minute session. You must sign up in advance, and enrollment is limited. Times are the same for all dates and locations: 11:30-11:50 a.m., 11:55 a.m.-12:15 p.m., 12:20-12:40 p.m., 12:45-1:05 p.m., and 1:10-1:30 p.m. Dates and locations are listed below. For more information or to sign up, call (831) 459-2668.</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 2: University Business Park</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 9: Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">November 16:</font> OPERS Conference Room at the East Field House
  </li>
  <li>November 30: Women's Center
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Conference on Place, Locality, and Globalization</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">A one-day conference on Place, Locality, and Globalization will take place on Saturday, October 28, from 8:45 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. at Kresge College, Room 159. The conference brings together scholars from a range of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences and includes a keynote address by Wlad Godzich, professor of comparative literature and dean of the Humanities Division at UCSC; presentations by UCSC anthropology faculty members Anna Tsing, Hugh Ra</font><font color="#003399">f</font><font color="#000000">fles, Jacqueline Nassy Brown, and Lisa Rofel; as well as talks by faculty from other universities and UC campuses. The conference will be devoted to discussion of papers that will be distributed in advance and will not be available on the day of the conference. To download the conference papers visit the</font> <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/cgirs/conferences/plg">web site</a><font color="#000000">. To receive copies of papers or other information on the conference, please contact Pat Smith at pasmith@cat</font><font color="#222222">s.ucsc.edu.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Cardiac Pacer 5-Mile Run on November 4</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">UCSC Intramural Sports presents the 52nd running of the Cardiac Pacer 5-Mile Run, the oldest run in Santa Cruz County, on Saturday, November 4, at 10 a.m. Enjoy beautiful redwoods and stunning vistas in a challenging 5-mile cross-country style run. The entry fee is $2. The race begins at the East Field, next to the pool. For more information, call (831) 459-4220 or e-mail kdgivens@cats.ucsc.edu.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Upgrade your computer skills</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">This fall, Training and Development is offering a wide array of classes for the campus community, including technical training in FileMaker Pro, Excel, and Word, as well as classes in publishing, the web, and presentation. See detailed course descriptions on the</font> <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev/">Training and Development web site.</a> <font color="#000000">For more information or to enroll, e-mail workshop@cats.ucsc.edu.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">UCSC Forum on Community Television</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for October. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays, with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>October 22: Lani Guinier: "Reframing the Affirmative Action Debate" (repeats Oct. 25)
  </li>
  <li>October 29: 2000 Martin Luther King Jr. Convocation featuring Susan Taylor (repeats Nov. 1)
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/10-23/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
