---
layout: post
title: "How to improve working conditions tops discussion at latest staff forum"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 6656
images:
---

<p>
  Top campus administrators are exploring ways to improve working conditions for UCSC employees, and pressure from the booming local economy is helping drive the effort, Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood told several hundred staff members during last week's brown-bag forum. Recognizing that applicant pools are down and employment options are growing as Santa Cruz's high-tech community grows, Greenwood said she and others are committed to offering a satisfying and rewarding work environment. "The rapidly changing economy has really hit Santa Cruz, as well as Silicon Valley," said Greenwood, who fielded questions for 45 minutes from the audience of about 400 UCSC employees in Kresge Town Hall. "There are a ton of new small start-up companies in town, and some probably do pay better than we do, but I would be very surprised if their compensation packages are better than ours, except perhaps for higher level technical employees." The local "raging economy" is largely a product of higher education's contributions to the high-tech and biomedical fields, she noted. The success of those industries has created some tough competition for the university as an employer, acknowledged Greenwood. The areas UCSC administrators are exploring include compensation, benefits, and affordable housing for employees. "It's not just salaries," said Greenwood. "There are various things that could be done that might make our environment more attractive." Kim Tyler, manager of the Computer Science Department and a longtime UCSC employee, said her research revealed that UCSC is at the bottom of the salary scale for UC campuses in northern California, yet Santa Cruz is among the most expensive places to live in the country. Greenwood responded that administrators are "looking at salary rates at other northern California campuses." Julia Armstrong-Zwart, assistant chancellor of Human Resources, said the campus is working with the UC Office of the President to address these issues, "particularly at the clerical/administrative assistant level." But even if salary ranges are expanded, for example, the campus would have to reallocate money to fund increased salaries, and any change to the salary structure would have to be negotiated for represented employees, she said. Some evidence suggests that staff are leaving to pursue other employment opportunities. Human Resources reports that the turnover rate on campus has increased to 11.9 percent today from 8 percent in 1996. By comparison, Greenwood cited a recent news report that turnover in Silicon Valley is 23 percent. Staff workloads have increased in the wake of what Greenwood called "the really, really depressing period of the university's budget" in the early 1990s, and the work has also increased in complexity, said Armstrong-Zwart. As a result, requests to Staff Human Resources for reclassifications have increased to the point where office staffers are having trouble completing reviews in a timely manner. Efforts are under way to simplify and streamline the process to increase the unit's capacity, she said. Last year, 25 percent of UCSC employees were reclassed, received equity increases, or were promoted, said Armstrong-Zwart. However, Mary Harrington, network coordinator for Communications and Technology Services and a representative of the Coalition of University Employees, responded that only 5 percent of clerical staff were reclassified last year. Acknowledging tension over the numbers, Greenwood said administrators are "digging through the data," and she underscored her commitment to promote UCSC employees. "It is definitely in our interest to grow our own," she said. As the campus braces to boost student enrollment by nearly 50 percent in coming years, administrators are also trying to anticipate staffing needs, said John Simpson, campus provost and executive vice chancellor. "This year, as deans, their staff, and faculty prepared their budget initiatives, we asked the deans and vice chancellors to consider the staffing requirements associated with their proposals," said Simpson. One example of a nonsalary enhancement was suggested by Donna Baldini, administrative assistant in psychology, who asked if staff could be given access to the campus's fitness facilities without charge. Greenwood was interested in the idea. Armstrong-Zwart, in conjunction with the Faculty Welfare Committee of the Academic Senate, will propose the creation of a committee to advise Greenwood on work/life issues, and the first step would be an employee survey. "We have a lot of anecdotal information, but, based on data from a survey, the committee could recommend activities, proposals, and actions that could be taken to improve the working environment on campus," said Armstrong-Zwart. In addition, although Greenwood reiterated her inability to meet with union representatives during contract negotiations, she expressed a desire to meet informally with union representatives outside of negotiations, as well as nonrepresented employees, to hear their suggestions on subjects such as training, work/life issues, academic planning, and construction. "I'd like to systematically attack those issues . . . and see if we can't make some progress during the next few years," she said. As it has at two previous forums with staff, the cost of parking on campus emerged as a topic of widespread concern. Speakers noted that parking fees amount to more than 2 percent of some employees' annual salaries and that employees whose offices have moved off campus to the Wrigley and Dascom Buildings have received what amounts to a raise of up to $500 a year because they no longer have to pay to park. Tom Vani, vice chancellor of Business and Administrative Services, reminded the audience that by state law and UC policy, parking has to be paid for by user fees. For years, he noted, UCSC had the lowest parking rates in the UC system. "I know it doesn't sound as fair as it should be, but we're still in the bottom half of what UC workers pay for parking," said Vani. Weighing in on the issue, Greenwood said: "We have a very difficult choice right now. We can choose not to increase parking and further restrict the availability of certain permits, or we can go ahead with the parking and building plan that should've started seven or eight years ago." Acknowledging the steep increase in parking costs, Greenwood reiterated the campus's desire to support alternatives, including park-and-ride lots; bike trailers for campus shuttles, which will be available in April; and alternative transportation such as e-bikes. "For employees with fairly regular hours, there are a number of options other than buying an 'A' permit," she said. Other topics discussed during the forum included the status of postdoctoral researchers on campus, communication between campus units and labor relations representatives, the campuswide implementation of annual performance reviews, and construction of a recycled water system for irrigation. Greenwood has announced her intention to hold another staff forum during spring quarter.
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/99-00/03-06/brwnbgwtr.html "Permalink to brwnbgwtr")
