---
layout: post
title: "Seven named Teachers of the Year by re-entry students"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 454
images:
---

<p>
  Unlike most of their younger classmates, re-entry students often must juggle the conflicting demands of family and work as they pursue their academic goals.
</p>
<p>
  In recognition of faculty who have demonstrated their understanding of the unique needs of these students, the Re-Entry Services Teacher of the Year program was introduced 13 years ago.
</p>
<p>
  Seven faculty members and lecturers were honored for their teaching excellence this year through a special nominating process. The recipients are as follows:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Frank Andrews, Professor, Chemistry and Biochemistry
  </li>
  <li>Margaret Downes Baskin, Senior Lecturer/Research Associate, Women's Studies
  </li>
  <li>Craig Haney, Professor, Psychology
  </li>
  <li>Peter Kenez, Professor, History
  </li>
  <li>Ellen Newberry, Lecturer, Writing Program
  </li>
  <li>Lucinda Pease-Alvarez, Associate Professor, Education
  </li>
  <li>Sarah Rabkin, Lecturer, Writing Program
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <br>
  "Having faculty who are sympathetic to the needs of re-entry students can make all the difference for older students who are going back to school," said Corinne Miller, director of Services for Transfer and Re-Entry Students (STARS). "These awards recognize faculty who welcome older students and go out of their way to help them be successful."
</p>
<p>
  The number of re-entry students at UCSC has been increasing as the campus boosts its outreach efforts at community colleges and develops graduate programs. The current enrollment is about 1,200, said Miller.
</p>
<p>
  Re-entry students make "invaluable" contributions to classroom discussions, noted recipient Craig Haney, a professor of psychology. "I appreciate the real-life experience they bring to bear on the issues we discuss," he said. "Because they've lived a bit--sometimes a lot--before they come back to school, they have a great deal to contribute. Many have experienced the very things we talk about in class."
</p>
<p>
  In their letters of nomination, re-entry students cited qualities such as accessibility and support. In a letter about Andrews, one student wrote: "Dr. Andrews never seems to tire of teaching, listening, helping, and sharing with others. His loving and caring nature has been an inspiration to me, as I'm sure it has for countless others."
</p>
<p>
  Downes Baskin was singled out for recognition by an older student who wrote of feeling "out-of-place in classes filled with very young students, but not in Professor Downes Baskin's classes. The atmosphere was always warm and accepting."
</p>
<p>
  Writing of Haney, one student described him as "an absolutely outstanding teacher, a captivating lecturer, an inspirational activist, and a caring mentor for his students."
</p>
<p>
  Kenez "went out of his way to show me how to get everything out of my short stay at UCSC. He is the person who will always represent UCSC to me," wrote one student.
</p>
<p>
  Of Newberry, students wrote that she is "awesome," and a "very gifted teacher, reflected in her treatment of students as well as TAs."
</p>
<p>
  Pease-Alvarez "goes out of her way to make sure her students succeed. She told me if there was anything she could do to help me, just let her know. She proofread my papers so many times I lost count," wrote a student who went on to describe Pease-Alvarez as "teacher of the year to me."
</p>
<p>
  Finally, Rabkin was cited as an "excellent, motivating instructor," who gave thoughtful feedback on assignments and treated student writing with respect.
</p>
<p>
  Re-entry students were invited to nominate teachers who were particularly enthusiastic, inspiring, or empathetic to the life of re-entry students, said Miller.
</p>
<p>
  STARS staff members and student assistants read the nomination letters and selected recipients who met the criteria, which included excellence in teaching and a demonstrated attitude of valuing the contributions of older students. Recipients received a letter of congratulations from Miller and a certificate honoring them as a "Re-Entry Teacher of the Year."
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/06-11/teachers.html "Permalink to teachers")
