---
layout: post
title: "Campus donates 33,364 pounds to Second Harvest holiday food drive"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 11
images:
---

<p>
  Food of all kinds was loaded onto a Metro bus Dec. 8 just inside the UCSC main entrance, as the campus community wound up its "Fill the Bus" drive to donate food and cash to the Second Harvest Food Bank of Santa Cruz and San Benito Counties.<br>
  <br>
  In a ceremony beside the bus, Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood thanked the Second Harvest committee members for their efforts to feed the hungry. Santa Cruz mayor and UCSC lecturer Tim Fitzmaurice presented a plaque to Greenwood to thank the campus for its help with the massive drive.<br>
  <br>
  When last-minute contributions were tallied, Second Harvest credited the campus with donating 33,364 pounds of food. Many people also contributed money to the campaign. For every $1 donated, the Food Bank credited UCSC with three pounds of food. Second Harvest can distribute more than $10 worth of food for every dollar donated.<br>
  <br>
  The campus total was up substantially over last year's 22,000 pounds. "I'm very proud of the generosity of the UCSC community in helping such a worthy cause," Greenwood said.<br>
  <br>
  "Fill the bus was beyond our expectations. UCSC did a great job," said Mac Vernon, Food Bank development director. "We're very appreciative."<br>
  <br>
  The "Fill the Bus" drive had a festive air, with Metro bus drivers dressed as Santas stopping around the community to pick up contributions. "It was just an amazing day," said Vernon.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/harvest.html "Permalink to harvest")
