---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 409
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Women at Work offers group tickets for Shakespeare Santa Cruz</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Again this year, Women at Work</font><font color="#000000">is offering staff and faculty the opportunity to purchase reduced-price group tickets for three performances of Shakespeare Santa Cruz.</font> <font color="#000000">Tickets for these three performances are $16.</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>July 27, 8 p.m., Festival Glen, <i>A Midsummer Night's Dream</i><br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>August 3, 8 p.m., Festival Glen, <i>She Stoops to Conquer</i><br>
    <br>
  </li>
  <li>August 10, 8 p.m., Theater Arts Mainstage, <i>Macbeth</i>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">To learn more about the plays and the festival, visit the</font> <a href="http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer01/welcome.shtml">Shakespeare Santa Cruz 20th Season</a> <font color="#000000">web site.</font> To get tickets, fill out an order form--they have been distributed throughout campus--or contact Diana Sue Miller at (831) 459-2882 or smiller@cats.ucsc.edu. Orders must be submitted and paid for by noon on July 24.
</p>
<p>
  <font color="#003399"><b>Social Sciences Dean Martin Chemers to speak at evening for educators</b></font>
</p>
<p>
  Central Coast educators are invited to an evening of dining and discussion with Martin Chemers, the dean of the Social Sciences Division at UC Santa Cruz and a leading researcher in the field of leadership and organizational diversity.
</p>
<p>
  Chemers will explore the topic, "How Can Educational Partners Become Leaders for Impact?," on Tuesday, May 29, from 4 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at Chaminade in Santa Cruz. The cost is $15 per person and advance registration is requested. To register, call (831) 479-5338. The event is being sponsored by the Santa Cruz New Teacher Project.
</p>
<p>
  An engaging speaker, Chemers is a professor of psychology and an active researcher in the field of leadership and organizational development. He is the author of seven books, including <i>Improving Leadership Effectiveness: The Leader Match Concept,</i>and <i>An Integrative Theory of Leadership.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The evening will offer Chemers's formal remarks as well as opportunities for informal discussion and for education professionals to talk and network with colleagues from across the Central Coast region. The goal is to help participants develop their leadership skills and refine their visions to maximize their impact regardless of their educational setting. <a href="http://press.ucsc.edu">Full press release</a>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Head coach Allison Slade to hold girls summer basketball camp</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Women's basketball head coach Allison Slade and her staff and players are offering a summer basketball camp July 30-August 2 for girls in 3rd through 8th grade. The camp will take place at the West Field House on campus, and the hours will be from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with drop-off as early as 8 a.m. and pickup as late as 5 p.m. The players will be divided into two divisions, 3rd through 5th grade, and 6th through 8th grade. A typical camp day will include ball handling and shooting drills, games, shooting contests, a guest speaker, and the opportunity to cool off in the UCSC pool. The cost is $150. For more information, call Allison Slade at (831) 459-4537.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Join the Staff Advisory Board</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Would you like to help advise the chancellor on staff issues? Plan staff appreciation activities? Here's your chance. There will be two openings on the 12-member Staff Advisory Board beginning July 1. All nonrepresented career staff employees are eligible. The term is three years, and the time commitment is one meeting per month and occasional special meetings and events. To get a nomination form, e-mail <a href="mailto:staffadv@cats.ucsc.edu">staffadv@cats.ucsc.edu</a>. Nominations are due June 11.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/05-28/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
