---
layout: post
title: "crisis"
author: Jim Burns
post_id: 1355
images:
---

<p>
  <font size="5"><b>Information on the national crisis</b></font>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC remains open, as are government offices and schools in the Santa Cruz area, according to the latest information received by UCSC's Public Information Office.
</p>
<p>
  Staff in the University Library report that TVs are set up for campus viewing at Kerr Media, the Science Library, and on the main floor of McHenry Library (which is large screen).
</p>
<p>
  <a href="crisis_counseling.html">Crisis counseling</a> and support is available to all UCSC staff, faculty, and students.
</p>
<p>
  The move-in schedule for students preparing to occupy university housing is <a href="crisis_move.in.html">unchanged</a>.<br>
  <br>
  There are some things we can do to help. The Red Cross is accepting donations, and you can mail them to the American Red Cross, 942 Lupin Drive, Salinas, CA 93906. The Santa Cruz Chapter of the American Red Cross said the national organization has not issued an emergency call for blood, but it is encouraging people to make appointments to give blood in the coming weeks to replenish supplies after the attacks. The American Red Cross has announced it is prepared to send 50,000 units of blood to help victims if needed. The number to arrange donations is 1-800-GIVELIFE, or 1-800-448-3543. <a href="http://www.sccredcross.org/WorldTrade.html">More</a>
</p>
<p>
  Services were planned Tuesday and Wednesday at local places of worship. <a href="crisis_services.html">More</a>
</p>
<p>
  Should UCSC employees seek the latest information about schools, local government offices, and road conditions, here are some contact phone numbers:
</p>
<p>
  <b>Public School systems</b><br>
  Santa Cruz City Schools: 429-3800<br>
  Santa Cruz County Schools: 479-5220
</p>
<p>
  <b>Santa Cruz City Government</b><br>
  Clerk's Office: 420-5030
</p>
<p>
  <b>Santa Cruz County Government</b><br>
  General Information: 454-2000
</p>
<p>
  <b>Highway information</b><br>
  CalTrans: (800) 427-7623
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-03/crisis.html "Permalink to crisis")
