---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

#### Hummingbird Day at the Arboretum March 10

The Arboretum's annual Hummingbird Day will take place on Saturday, March 10, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be a variety of events for all ages, with children's activities beginning at 10 a.m.

Tours of the gardens to see the hummingbirds in action will begin at 10 a.m. and be followed by classroom discussion. Bird expert and long-time friend of the Arboretum Todd Newberry will be on hand.

For more information, call the Arboretum at (831) 427-2998.

#### UCSC retirees to meet for lunch March 7

All retired staffers are invited to attend the UCSC Retirees annual Soup Luncheon meeting on Wednesday, March 7, at the Women's Center (Cardiff House). The event will begin at 11:30 a.m. Attendees are asked to bring their own soup mug and spoon. Guest speaker will be Stanley Stevens, librarian emeritus, who will describe his research for the McPherson Art and History Museum and his continuing projects for the UCSC Library.  
  
The UCSC Retirees Association invites all staff who are retired to become members. Regular meetings are held every month at the Women's Center. For more information, call Barbara Dileanis at (831) 426-7653.

#### Find rental housing on the web

The Community Rentals Office now has a [web site][1] that allows viewers to search for rental housing. Faculty and staff members are eligible to view the site after enrolling with the Faculty Housing Office. Available rentals can be viewed as a whole or via filters (sorted by price, size, or area parameters)

To enroll, call (831) 458-3506 or e-mail [facultyhousing@cats.ucsc.edu][2]. The Faculty Housing Office will need your name and social security number. You can view the site by going to the "Search Listings" link and then entering your name and social security number.

#### Work/Life--The balancing act

Check out UCSC's new resource guide on the web for work/life issues. The [site][3] (www2.ucsc.edu/hr/worklife/), put together by Staff Human Resources, lists programs and services available on campus and in the community. Topics include:

* Family-friendly policies
* Benefits
* Flexible work arrangements
* Child Care
* Elder/Adult dependent care
* Health and wellness
* Professional development

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][4]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][5] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][6]

  

[1]: http://communityrentals.ucsc.edu
[2]: mailto:facultyhousing@cats.ucsc.edu
[3]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/hr/worklife/
[4]: ../../construction.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-05/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
