---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

The dedication of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center's new headquarters building complex at the former Fort Ord was covered by KION and KSBW television news and by the _San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey Herald,_ and _Salinas Californian._ Center director **Lora Martin** was quoted in the stories.

Music professor **Fred Lieberman** was quoted in a _San Francisco Chronicle_ article about the fact that "God Bless America" is being sung much more than the national anthem, with its images of "bombs bursting in air." "It's a combination of timing and psychological fit," said Lieberman.

Psychology's **Barbara Rogoff** penned a piece for the _Chronicle of Higher Education_ on the value of narrative evaluations over letter grades when it comes to assessing a student's actual learning.

**Gary Griggs,** professor of Earth sciences and director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in a news story in _New Scientist_ magazine about research by other scientists on how waves damage sea walls.

In an article about a new book that asserts that American parents are spoiling children, the _Star Tribune_ quoted sociology lecturer **Mike Males**, author of _The Scapegoat Generation,_ who disagreed, saying most teens are doing well. Males also authored an opinion piece that appeared in the _Wichita Eagle,_ arguing that critical judgments older generations make about younger ones are unproductive and often inaccurate.

Research by education's **June Gordon** was cited in a _Phi Delta Kappan_ article about the small number of Asian Americans who pursue teaching careers.

Economist **Lori Kletzer** was quoted in an Associated Press story about California's unemployment rate in August.

Discoveries by amateur archaeologist and assistant dean of the Arts Division **Keith Muscutt** were covered in _the San Diego Union-Tribune._  
  
**John Pearse,** professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in an article in _E_ magazine about the threats to Pacific tide pool life.  
  
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-24/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
