---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1546
images:
---

<p>
  A long article on gray whales in the <i>Phoenix New Times</i> featured professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Burney Le Boeuf.</b> The article also appeared in the <i>S.F. Weekly.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> continues to field calls on war-related topics, including recent queries on wartime propaganda from KPIX-TV in San Francisco and KSCO Radio.<i><br>
  <br></i><b>Don Croll,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a <i>U.S. News &amp; World Report</i> article about blue whales.
</p>
<p>
  Film prof <b>Shelley Stamp</b> was quoted in a <i>Sentinel</i> article about the recent campus conference on women during Hollywood's earliest days, and the paper also ran a major feature on the upcoming <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</b> production of <i>Gretel &amp; Hansel</i>.
</p>
<p>
  An article about tidepools in <i>California Wild,</i> the magazine of the California Academy of Sciences, featured <b>John Pearse,</b> professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology and president of the academy.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz</i> <i>Sentinel</i> did a lengthy feature about a new book that presents oral histories of the Jim Crow era, focusing on the contributions of <b>Paul Ortiz</b> of community studies.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Lora Martin,</b> director of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center, was quoted in a recent story about the center's development and plans for the future in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.<br>
  <br></i>Astronomer <b>Steven Vogt</b> was interviewed on KSCO Radio about the new planets he and his coworkers have discovered, and he was also quoted in news stories in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> the <i>Richmond Times-Dispatch,</i> and other newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> discussed trade-related job loss with Bay City News, a San Francisco-based wire service.
</p>
<p>

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/11-19/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
