---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/slug_filmcrew.jpg
    - caption: "UCSC students describe the virtues of the banana slug mascot for a Japanese newsmagazine. Photo: Ann Gibb"
---

### Banana Slug mascot demonstrates international renown

  
The power of UCSC's banana slug mascot has reached Japan. A production company, shooting footage for a Japanese television newsmagazine story about slugs, visited UCSC to collect banana slug images. They videotaped students in slugwear; the multitude of slug items at the bookstore; and slugs on signs around campus. Sammy the Slug mascot made an appearance for the film crew in the Quarry Plaza. Transfixed and delighted by Sammy's cavorting, one student said, "I want to give the slug a hug," and promptly did.  
  
The film crew interviewed Lynda Goff, biology professor and dean of undergraduate education, on why the banana slug makes a good mascot. Students were also videotaped giving impromptu interviews on the power of the slug. "UCSC students are unique, and the slug is a unique mascot," one said as she explained her fondness for the mascot. "I love the banana slug."

_Back to top_

### 'OPERS Fall Festival 2001' on Community TV

Porter grad Erik Hansen has produced a series of programs for Community Television, titled "Street Dancers Alternative To Violence," which aims to present youth with activities that are fun and challenging without being destructive. Tonight (Monday, October 8) at 5:30 p.m., Community TV, Channel 27, will air "OPERS Fall Festival 2001." The film shows the many activities offered by the UCSC Office of Physical Education, Recreation, and Sports--everything from dance to tai chi to soccer. Over 100 student organizations are represented in all. The program will be shown again on Monday, October 15, at 5:30 p.m. on Channel 27.

_Back to top_

### Relax with a noontime massage

Students in the Recreation Department's Holistic Health Program are offering lunch-break chair massages for the campus community on four Thursdays this fall. The cost is $10 for a 20-minutes massage. Sign up times for all four Thursdays are 11:30-11:50 a.m., 11:55 a.m.-12:15 p.m., 12:20-12:40 p.m., 12:45-1:05 p.m., or 1:10-1:30 p.m. Dates and locations are listed below. Call (831) 459-2668 to make an appointment.

* October 18: UCSC Women's Center
* October 25, November 1, and November 8: OPERS Conference Room, East Field House

_Back to top_

### Recreation Department offers a variety of classes

Check out the many classes offered by the Recreation Department this fall. Class catalogs are available all over campus; a few examples are listed below. Advance sign up is required. To register, contact the Recreation Department and pay with a credit card or stop by the office to pay with cash or check. Call (831) 459-2806 or e-mail [kferraro@cats.ucsc.edu][1] for more information.

**Organic Gardening**. October 13, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UCSC Farm and Garden. Learn the fundamentals of how to propagate, grow, and harvest food and medicines. Topics include container gardening, composting and edible "weed" identification. Instructor: Darren Huckle. Potluck lunch. Cost: $18/UCSC students and rec card holders; $23/general.

**Astronomy Workshop: Stars & Moons, Myths & Lore.** October 18, 7 to 11 p.m. Cowell College Conference Room. The wonders of the night sky, the basics of observational astronomy, "cosmic ecology," and information on resources and equipment are covered first at an indoor lecture-discussion. Then hike to upper campus to view constellations, planets, galaxies and nebulae. Instructor: Joe Jordan. Bring binoculars (if you have them), and warm, layered clothing. Sign up in advance. Cost: $10 students and rec card holders; $15 general.

**CPR - Adult Heartsaver.** (1) October 19, 6 to 8:30 p.m. and (2) November 9, 6 to 8:30 p.m. OPERS Conference Room. The class is intended to prepare individuals to provide care for breathing and cardiac emergencies including performing adult CPR, rescue breathing, accessing Emergency Medical Services, and preventing disease transmission. Red Cross certification issued upon completion. Instructor: Jim Novotny. Cost: $20/UCSC students and rec card holders; $25/general.

_Back to top_

### Dance Team members chosen

The UCSC Dance Team held auditions and chose the 2001-02 team. Team members are Stephanie Baroni, Monica Derr, Amber Gardea, Gina Hays, Elizabeth Heller, Sophie Herron, Lauren Malmquist, Toneshia McDuffy, Silvia Miranda, Swapna Mistry, Marisol Murguia, Melanie Rosenthal, Dana Stewart, Jami Smith, and Maite Vallodold.

_Back to top_

### Temporary workers available through Student Corps Program

Over 25 student workers are ready to respond to the temporary work needs of campus units. Job tasks can include clerical and typing, filing and photocopying, reception and phone work, sorting and running errands, mail processing, database entry, light maintenance, moving, event setup and cleanup, campus deliveries, traffic control, and more. For more information, visit the [Student Corp web site][2] or call (831) 459-2789.

_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][3]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][4] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][5]

_Back to top_  

[1]: mailto:kferraro@cats.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/staff/studentcorps.html
[3]: ../../construction.html
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-08/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
