---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/foreman_doyle.09-17.150.jpg
    - caption: "Doyle Foreman Photo: Ming Zhou Tuck"
  -
    - file: ../art/norris_bench.200.jpg
    - caption: "Late professor of natural history Ken Norris remembered with bench in Native Plant Area Photo: Larry Pageler"
---

###

###

Bench in Native Plant Area dedicated to late professor Ken Norris

Friends and family of the late Ken Norris, professor of natural history, gathered on Saturday, September 8, for a picnic lunch at the bench placed in Norris's memory in the Native Plant Area north of the UCSC Arboretum. About 60 people and one gopher snake showed up for the informal gathering, organized by Maggie Fusari, director of the UCSC Natural Reserves. The bench was built with salvaged redwood from the Landels-Hill Big Creek Reserve by the resident steward, Feynner Arias. Big Creek is part of the UC Natural Reserve System founded by Norris. The inscription, which reads "It sure beats working," was chosen by the Norris family and inscribed by Rick Flores of the UCSC Arboretum. The Native Plant Area is jointly managed by the Arboretum and the UCSC Campus Reserve.

### **Registration for recreation **classes begins this week

Registration for recreation classes **for students** is on** **Tuesday, September 25, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. at the Recreation Office, East Field House. First come, first serve. Registration begins for **UCSC staff and faculty and community members** on Wednesday**, **September 26, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m at the Recreation Office, East Field House. First come, first serve.

Sign up for surfing, rock climbing, kayaking, backpacking, holistic health classes, cooking, dance, music, survival skills, wilderness medicine, CPR classes, day hikes, local wine tasting, and much more. Pick up a copy of the fall 2001 _UCSC Recreation, Intramural and Sports Guide_ for a complete listing. Also you may call Recreation at (831) 459-2806 for more information.  
  
Phone-in registration begins on September 27 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Call (831) 459-2806 and have your credit card ready.

### Fitness classes offered at lunch time

The Recreation Office is offering four different fitness classes this fall.   
  
**Yoga** classes are held Tuesdays and Fridays from noon to 1 p.m. in the Martial Arts Room at the East Field House.  
  
**Yoga /Pilates** classes take place on Thursdays from noon to 1 p.m. in the Activity Room at the East Field House.  
  
**Express Workout** classes are Mondays and Wednesdays from 12:15 to 12:55 p.m. at the Wellness Center.  
  
**Noontime Walks** (new this fall) around the campus, led by campus recreation supervisor Kathy Ferraro, take place on October 1 and 29 (meet at the sand volleyball courts at the East Field House) and on October 15 and November 5, (meet in front of the West Field House at College Eight).

### **EAP offers overseas opportunities for faculty: Deadline to apply is October 8**

UC faculty are invited to play a crucial role in shaping California's future in the world community by taking a position as an Education Abroad Study Center director. Study center directors provide global training and context for the next generation of California leaders. They assure harmonious relations with UC's partner universities and serve as instructor of record for academic work undertaken by EAP students. Directors also identify distinctive learning opportunities at EAP's partner institutions abroad and provide expert analysis of international educational systems and institutions.  
  
All tenured faculty members of the Academic Senate, including lecturers with security of employment, and emeriti faculty may apply. Fluency in the language of the host country and a broad knowledge of the host country are major qualifications; length of appointment varies from one-semester to one-year and two-year appointments depending on the program.  
  
UOEAP currently has 17 openings in the following countries: **Egypt, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Netherlands, Russia, Scandinavia (Denmark/Sweden), Spain, UK/Ireland (London), and Vietnam.  
  
**The deadline for submitting applications is: **Monday, October 8.** For more information, visit:the [EAP web site.][1] For an application, contact Suzanne King at: [academicaffairs@uoeap.ucsb.edu][2].

### UCSC Dance Team holding auditions

The UCSC Dance Team will be holding fall auditions on October 3 from 5 to 9 p.m. in the Activity Room/Dance Studio in the East Field House. For detailed information about the auditions, go to the Dance Teams [web site][3]. The Dance Team will perform throughout the school year at school athletic events, other school and community events, and at local, regional, and national competitions.

###

###

###

**Retirement party for Doyle Foreman**

The campus community is invited to a party on September 29 to honor art professor [Doyle Foreman,][4] who retired this summer. The party will be held at the UCSC Women's Center from 4 until 8 p.m. Dan Juma Adamu and his band, Kosono, will play; food and refreshments will be served.

Doyle Forman is primarily a sculptor, although he has also made and screened films and shown drawings. He was one of the founding members and art editor of the _Yardbird Reader,_ a journal of mulitcultural art and writing. He began teaching at UCSC in 1968, and has taught courses in bronze casting, figure sculpture, drawing, and African art. In 1975 he designed and oversaw the building of the bronze foundry on campus, the first official facility for the art department. It is currently the only bronze foundry in the UC system.

### **Clean Air Fair downtown September 26**

Win an E-bike, a rechargeable bike light, and other fun prizes at the Transportation/Clean Air Fair on September 26, from 2 to 7 p.m. at the downtown Santa Cruz Farmer's Market. The fair will showcase alternatively fueled vehicles, electric bikes, and local alternative transportation programs. Find out more on the [web][5] or by calling (831) 460-3200. The event is sponsored by the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission, the City of Santa Cruz, and the Santa Cruz Area Transportation Management Association.

### Staff and faculty mentors sought

The Page and Eloise Smith Scholastic Society is bringing together UCSC alumni, faculty, and staff to serve the educational aspirations of UCSC students who are foster children, wards of the court, and orphans. There are over 40 of these students on campus this fall. They are receiving scholarships from the Page and Eloise Smith Scholastic Society, but they will also need other help.   
  
Can you help someone through the registration process? Could you correspond occasionally via e-mail with a student needing advice about a major? Perhaps you could help a new student connect with just the right faculty member to explore their visions or goals. If you are interested in any level of mentorship relationship with a current student who has been a foster child, ward of the court, or orphan, please contact Lynn Zachreson in the Alumni Office at (831) 459-5842.

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][8]

  
[ ][8]  

[1]: http://www.uoeap.ucsb.edu/Faculty/default.htm
[2]: mailto:academicaffairs@uoeap.ucsb.edu
[3]: http://www.goslugs.com/clubsports/dance/dance.html
[4]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/faculty/Foreman/index.html
[5]: http://www.commutesolutions.org/
[6]: ../../construction.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-24/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
