---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Economist **Lori Kletzer** appeared in a front-page _San Jose Mercury News_ article about the closing of the Salz tannery.

The _San Francisco Chronicle_ ran a story about research by graduate student **Lesley Perg** (now at the University of Hannover) and professor of Earth sciences **Robert Anderson** on the age of the marine terraces near Santa Cruz, which has implications for earthquake frequency.

**Veronica Tonay** in psychology has fielded a number of media calls since September 11, including one from the Associated Press about dreams--and nightmares--people are having since the attacks. An Ohio radio station and the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ also called Tonay for stories about coping with stress in the wake of the terrorist attacks. The _Sentinel_ also tapped Tonay for a story about kids leaving home for college. . . . Speaking of dreams, **Bill Domhoff's** dream research was mentioned in the _New York Times._ DreamBank, his online database of nearly 10,000 dreams, made the cut in a recent "Online Diary" column.

Also in psychology, **Anthony Pratkanis** did another 9/11-related interview with the _Los Angeles Times, _this time on how to promote democracy in nondemocratic nations. He also penned a sharply worded op-ed for _Newsday_ about the risks of censoring the words of Osama bin Laden.

Professor of Earth sciences **Gary Griggs** and graduate student **Kiki Runyan** were featured in a _San Diego Union-Tribune_ story about shoreline erosion and beach restoration projects.

**David Wellman's** expertise on racism was apparent in a _Los Angeles Times _article about negative attitudes toward Chinese Americans.

**Lora Martin,** director of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center, was a guest on the KUSP Radio program _Talk of the Bay._

_The Chronicle of Higher Education_ cited work by sociology instructor **Mike Males** in a recent article about violent crime, and Males wrote an opinion piece for _LA Weekly_ on the same topic.

[Return to Front Page][1]
[1]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/12-03/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
