---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1343
images:
---

<p>
  Sociology's <b>Lionel Cantu</b> was interviewed by the <i>Fort Worth Star-Telegram</i> for a story about the 1.5 million Texans who lack English skills. Also in sociology, <b>Craig Reinarman</b> was a major source for a <i>St. Petersburg Times</i> reporter who did a multipart story on Dutch policy on marijuana. And sociologist <b>Nancy Stoller</b> was tapped by the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> for a story on the odd anticloning alliance between feminists and Republican conservatives.
</p>
<p>
  Research biologist <b>Baldo Marinovic</b> was quoted in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> in a story about sooty shearwaters, seabirds that gather in huge numbers in Monterey Bay at this time of year.<br>
  <br>
  An article in the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> about the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) project, and the effects of its cancellation on the field of physics, featured the remarks of <b>Michael Riordan,</b> adjunct professor of physics.<br>
  <br>
  A <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> reporter tapped the expertise of statistician <b>David Draper,</b> professor and chair of applied math and statistics, for a story about Giants slugger Barry Bonds and his home-run hitting streak.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Washington Post</i> article about <b>Marcia Millman's</b> book on real-life love stories and the movies has appeared in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> and the <i>Pittsburgh Post-Gazette,</i> among other papers around the country.<br>
  <br>
  Research by professor of ocean sciences <b>Jonathan Zehr</b> on nitrogen fixation by marine microorganisms was covered by the UPI wire service, <i>Science News</i> magazine, <i>Science Now,</i> and KSCO Radio.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of mathematics <b>Richard Montgomery</b> was featured in an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about the daunting "three-body problem"--how three or more celestial objects will move under their mutual gravitational attraction.<br>
  <br>
  The Associated Press turned to <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies for comment on the high percentage of Central and South Americans in San Francisco County.<br>
  <br>
  Agroecology's <b>Steve Gliessman</b> was quoted in a United Press International story about the decreased nutritional value of wheat grown in high carbon-dioxide environments.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie's</b> work was cited in a <i>Florida Times-Union</i> story about immigrant entrepreneurship.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Fresno Bee</i> called historian <b>Pedro Castillo</b> about social and political changes that are likely in light of the Hispanic baby boom taking place in the San Joaquin Valley.<br>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/08-20/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
