---
layout: post
title: "United Way campaign starts January 5"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 22
images:
---

<p>
  Once again, the UCSC campus has the opportunity to show the Santa Cruz community that we care.<br>
  <br>
  This year's United Way campaign begins with a kickoff luncheon for departmental representatives at noon on January 5 at the Women's Center. Representatives from every department will hear how the United Way works, what its 35 member agencies do, and how donations get to the people who need the services.<br>
  <br>
  The services are wide-ranging. Those with children in public schools in the county have received a valuable service from the Child Abuse Prevention Program. Representatives of the program speak twice a year to two grades at every elementary school in the county, teaching both about what is appropriate behavior from others, and how youngsters can identify a safe person on their way to and from school, to help prevent child abductions.<br>
  <br>
  Troubled teens get counseling and the opportunity to go through high school clean and sober through alternative programs with the help of Youth Services, and Fenix Services has the only heroin support group in the area.<br>
  <br>
  United Way agencies also help people in need get housing and shelter, provide daily lunches for Watsonville seniors, give preschoolers much-needed dental care through the Head Start program, and provide disaster assistance through the Red Cross. Almost every age group and area of need is addressed through United Way's agencies.<br>
  <br>
  All campus employees will receive a donor pledge form through campus mail. Forms are also available from Rachel Pound, this year's UCSC United Way campaign chair, in the Public Information Office in the Carriage House. "This year's goal is to increase UCSC's participation in the campaign to 25 percent, up from nearly 20 percent last year," Pound said.<br>
  <br>
  If you have any questions, or need more information, call Pound at (831) 459-2495.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/united.html "Permalink to united")
