---
layout: post
title: "CUE ratifies contract with UC"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 9
images:
---

<p>
  Some campus clerical workers can look forward to wage increases of up to 15 percent in the wake of ratification by the Coalition of University Employees (CUE) of its first contract with the University of California.
</p>
<p>
  The contract, ratified on December 19, was signed and executed the following day. It became effective immediately. A copy of the new UC-CUE contract is available on the web at: <a href="http://www.ucop.edu/humres/contracts/cx">www.ucop.edu/humres/contracts/cx</a><a href="http//www.ucop.edu/humres/contracts/cx.">.</a>
</p>
<p>
  Training for managers, supervisors, and service center representatives will be provided. The contract provides for multiple years of wage increases, including retroactive payments. Because the increases are a combination of range adjustments and merit increases, a clerical employee eligible for merit increases may earn upwards of a 15 percent increase over a two-year period.
</p>
<p>
  The range and merit adjustments for 1999-2000 are:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>2.8% range adjustment effective October 1, 1999
  </li>
  <li>The traditional merit program for 1999-2000, using the single merit date of October 1. Because the 2.8 percent range adjustment includes .8 percent funding from the Incentive Award Program (IAP), funding for the awards is not available. Any employees who were nominated and confirmed for an IAP award should be paid from non-IAP funds.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  The new contract provides for the following range and merit adjustments for 2000-01:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>2 percent effective July 1, 2000
  </li>
  <li>2 percent effective October 1, 2000
  </li>
  <li>1 percent effective September 1, 2001
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  In addition, the contract provides for the addition of one step to the top of all ranges for all titles except per diems, effective October 1, 2000, and the traditional merit program for 2000-01, using the single merit date of October 1.
</p>
<p>
  With the new agreement, employees regain the right to binding arbitration when provided for in the UC-CUE contract. Other highlights include:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Background check procedures are set forth in the Work Rules Article, which requires a bona fide business purpose to conduct a background check, including a credit check.
  </li>
  <li>Allegations of discrimination not tied to other provisions of the contract can be appealed to arbitration.
  </li>
  <li>The contract commits to fair and respectful treatment of employees.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  The contract expires Sept. 30, 2001. The university will resume successor negotiations with CUE in early spring 2001.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/contract.html "Permalink to contract")
