---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/penhoet.140.jpg
    - caption: "Dean Edward Penhoet, UC Berkeley School of Public Health"
  -
    - file: ../art/whitaker_on_Everest.150.jpg
    - caption: "Jim Whittaker on Mt. Everest"
  -
    - file: ../art/farm_camp.140.jpg
    - caption: "Campers help Farm apprentices harvest beans for market. Photo: John Fisher"
  -
    - file: ../art/quilt.150.jpg
    - caption: "A section of the quilt created by UCSC staff member Pele Fleming to benefit Child Care Services."
---

####

####

UC Berkeley dean to give talk on fundraising for health sciences

Edward E. Penhoet, dean of the School of Public Health at UC Berkeley, will give a public lecture on "Securing Resources for Health Sciences Initiatives Without a Medical School" on Thursday, April 12. The talk will take place from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 152, Jack Baskin Engineering Building. An informal reception will be held after the lecture.  
  
Penhoet is a professor of public health and of molecular and cell biology at UC Berkeley. He is also a director and cofounder of Chiron Corporation, one of the world's leading biotechnology companies. Penhoet served as Chiron's president and CEO from the time he cofounded the company in 1981 until 1998.   
  
UC Berkeley launched its $500 million Health Sciences Initiative in 1999. The initiative is dedicated to advancing human health and development through creative integration of disciplines that cut across biological, behavioral, and environmental issues.

####

####

An evening with legendary climber and adventurer Jim Whittaker

On Thursday, April 12, legendary climber and adventurer Jim Whittaker will present "A Life on the Edge - Memoirs of Everest and Beyond" at Porter College Dining Hall. Whittaker was the first North American to summit Mount Everest. He was also the first manager and employee, and ultimately the CEO, of fledgling Recreational Equipment, Inc. (REI), which he guided through years of record-setting growth. He guided Bobby Kennedy up the newly named Mount Kennedy, helping him to become the first person to summit the Canadian peak. He led the first and only International Peace Climb, which put climbers from the U.S., Russia, and China on the summit of Everest in the name of world peace. The presentation is a benefit for the UCSC adventure outings scholarships

There will be a book signing at 7:30 p.m. and the slide show begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are $3/students, $6/general; tickets will be available at the door.

#### Student Corps is back

The Career Center is pleased to announce the reintroduction of its Student Corps temporary student staffing service for UCSC's campus community. As of February 1, the pool of 23 students was working for a variety of campus units as clerical, typing, photocopying, filing, answering phones, reception backup, driving, directing traffic, posting flyers, cleaning, and setting up events. For more information (and to download the job request form), visit the [Student Corps web site][1].

#### Call for Intel ISEF judges

From May 6 to12, 1,200 high school students from nearly 50 countries will be in San Jose to participate in the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. Intel ISEF needs judges to review science and engineering projects. All students have already won local or national science fairs and are now competing for over $3 million in cash, prizes, and scholarships. The two top students will be VIP guests of the next Nobel Prize ceremony in Stockholm.   
  
Judges should have a Ph.D., M.D., or at least six years of professional experience in a research field. Judges are needed in the 14 subject categories of ISEF: behavioral and social sciences, biochemistry, botany, chemistry, computer science, Earth and space science, engineering, environmental science, gerontology, mathematics, medicine and health, microbiology, physics, and zoology.   
  
If interested in judging, or for more information, contact Donna Gerardi Riordan: at (831) 459-1311 or [donna.riordan@adm.ucsc.edu][2].

####

####

Child Care Services to hold quilt fundraiser and open house

Child Care Services will hold an Open House on April 17 from 10 to 11:30 a.m. and 3:15 to 5:30 p.m. at the three child care programs located at 599 Koshland Way in Family Student Housing and at the Granary Child Development Center (at the base of campus).

On display at the open house will be a beautiful quilt, created by Pele Fleming, who works in the Housing, Dining & Child Care Facilities office, as a fundraiser for child care programs. The quilt incorporates pencil drawings of faces by children at the Children's Center, Granary Child Development Center, and School Age Center. A drawing for the quilt will begin at the open house. Proceeds will go toward the improvement of play yards in all UCSC child care programs.

At the open house, the campus community is invited to observe in the classrooms, meet staff and families, share refreshments, and see the quilt. The quilt is currently on display in the office of Vice Chancellor Francisco Hernandez and will move to the Women's Center the fourth week of April.

#### Upcoming offerings from the Recreation Department

Recreation Registration is now open to all UCSC students, staff, and faculty and to community members. There are still openings in many spring classes. To register, stop by the Recreation Office at the East Field House (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.) or call (with a credit card) (831) 459-2806. There are still openings in backpacking, mountain biking, day trips, cpr classes, cooking classes, knitting, juggling, and gardening, to name a few. A few upcoming highlignts follow:

**"Climber as Visionary"**\--a seminar on the "visionary effect," including a new video of High Sierra climbing with Doug Robinson, on Saturday, April 21, from 7 to 9:30 p.m. in Classroom Unit 1. $5 students/$7 general admission; tickets available at the door. Doug Robinson runs a climbing school in Silicon Valley called Moving Over Stone. His writing about climbing and ski mountaineering is  
collected in _A Night on the Ground, A Day in the Open._ For more information, call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806.   
  
**Climbing Workshop at Castle Rock State Park** with Doug Robinson on Sunday, April 22, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Castle Rock Climbing Site. The cost is $48/UCSC students; $55/general admission. All levels of climbers welcome. Sign up in advance. For more information, call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806.   
  
**"Herbs for Stress and Stamina,"** with Jeannine Pollak. Tuesday, April 17, 7 to 10 p.m. in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. Cost is $12 students/$17 general. Sign up in advance. For more information, call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806.

####

Summer day camp offers big fun at the UCSC Farm

The Wildlands and Watering Cans Summer Day Camp at the UCSC Farm offers hands-on gardening and wilderness activities for children ages 7 to 10. Each day will be filled with activities from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. A maximum of 24 campers will be enrolled for each weeklong session. Three sessions will be offered: June 25-29; July 9-13; and July 16-20. The curriculum will be repeated each week.

The camp is designed to foster environmental awareness while encouraging children to cooperate and have fun outside. Campers will create their own garden beds, explore insects and herbs, and make garden-based crafts. Campers will be exposed to organic farming practices such as composting and soil care, and they will help apprentices in the UCSC ecological horticulture program harvest vegetables for the weekly market. In addition, campers will enjoy local wilderness excursions that include tours of the UCSC Arboretum, the Pogonip Open Space Preserve, and Wilder Ranch.

Fees are $135/week for members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm and Garden and $150 for nonmembers. Call (831) 459-3240 for registration information.

#### Student Achievement Award applications due April 20

Student research will be celebrated during Student Achievement Week, May 29 through June 1. Undergraduate students are encouraged to submit their research projects, such as their senior thesis, to their division (Arts, Engineering, Humanities, Natural Sciences, or Social Sciences) for consideration for student achievement awards. Deans' Awards (10 from each division), Chancellor's Awards (three chosen from the 10 awarded by each division), and the Steck Award (chosen from the 15 Chancellor's Award recipients) will be presented at a ceremony at University House on Friday, June 1. The winning students, along with the faculty members who worked with them on their project, will attend the ceremony and are formally recognized by the chancellor and others for their work.** **Students interested in applying should contact their division or department office for information. The deadline to apply for these awards is Friday, April 20**. **For more information, contact Dianne Wright in the Campus Provost/Executive Vice Chancellor's Office at (831) 459-5386, or [dwright@cats.ucsc.edu][3].

#### Women's Center invites young artists to exhibit their work

Children of UC staff, students, and faculty are invited to participate in a Children's Art Show, a celebration of children in our community. The show will take place at the Women's Center Gallery May 12-20. A reception/party for the show will be held on Sunday, May 13. Art may be in any medium and can even be a collaborative, intergenerational project. Artists must be between 3-13 years of age. The Women's Center is also looking for adults and/or children who would like to perform, recite, or even tell a story for the show's opening reception. For more information or to indicate your interest in participation in the show or the reception, contact Donna at (831) 458-1982 (between 5-7 p.m.) or Helen at (831) 459-2291.

#### **Education Abroad Program** recruiting for **southern cycle programs**

The Education Abroad Program is currently advising and accepting applications for the programs in the following countries: Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Australia, New Zealand, Philippines, Hong Kong, Japan, South Africa, Denmark, Italy, Netherlands, and Spain.

Interested students may call (831) 459-2858, e-mail alien@cats.ucsc.edu, or visit the [Office of International Education][4], online or in person at 205 Classroom Unit Building. The last day students can receive an application for these programs is Monday, April 16.

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][5]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][6] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][7]

  

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/staff/studentcorps.html
[2]: mailto:donna.riordan@adm.ucsc.edu
[3]: mailto:dwright@cats.ucsc.edu
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/oie/
[5]: ../../construction.html
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/04-09/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
