---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/norris_bench.200.jpg
    - caption: "A bench in the Native Plant Area is dedicated to the late Ken Norris, professor of natural history. Photo: Larry Pageler"
---

### EEO/AA sponsors diversity development events

The Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Office is offering five events this fall aimed at furthering campus understanding and appreciation of diversity. All events are free, but preregistration is requested. For more information or to reserve a space, e-mail [workshop@cats.ucsc.edu][1] or call (831) 459-5087.

* **California's New Disability Laws: What Managers and HR Personnel Need to Know.** Workshop, October 15, 1:30 to 3 p.m. Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D
* **Intercultural Communication: Understanding and Being Understood.** All-day workshop. November 15, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Breakfast and lunch included. Advance enrollment required. Arboretum Meeting Room
* **American Indians and the Urban Experience.** Book reading and discussion. November 19, noon to 1 p.m. (reading), 1 to 1:30 p.m. (discussion and reception). Bay Tree Conference Center, Room C
* **The Sum of Our Parts: Mixed Heritage Asian Americans.** Book reading and discussion. November 29, noon to 1 p.m. (reading), 1 to 1:30 p.m. (discussion and reception). Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D
* **Recruiting for a Diverse Workforce.** Workshop. December 12, 10 a.m. to noon. Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D

### Temporary workers available through Student Corps Program

Over 25 student workers are ready to respond to the temporary work needs of campus units. Job tasks can include clerical and typing, filing and photocopying, reception and phone work, sorting and running errands, mail processing, database entry, light maintenance, moving, event setup and cleanup, campus deliveries, traffic control, and more. For more information, visit the [Student Corp web site][2] or call (831) 459-2789.

### Bench in Native Plant Area dedicated to Ken Norris

Friends and family of the late Ken Norris, professor of natural history, gathered on Saturday, September 8, for a picnic lunch at the bench placed in Norris's memory in the Native Plant Area north of the UCSC Arboretum. About 60 people and one gopher snake showed up for the informal gathering, organized by Maggie Fusari, director of the UCSC Natural Reserves. The bench was built with salvaged redwood from the Landels-Hill Big Creek Reserve by the resident steward, Feynner Arias. Big Creek is part of the UC Natural Reserve System founded by Norris. The inscription, which reads "It sure beats working--Ken Norris," was chosen by the Norris family and inscribed by Rick Flores of the UCSC Arboretum. The Native Plant Area is jointly managed by the Arboretum and the UCSC Campus Reserve.

### UCSC Dance Team holding auditions

The UCSC Dance Team will be holding fall auditions on October 3 from 5 to 9 p.m. in the Activity Room/Dance Studio in the East Field House. For detailed information about the auditions, go to the Dance Team's [web site][3]. The Dance Team will perform throughout the school year at school athletic events, other school and community events, and at local, regional, and national competitions

### Fitness classes offered at lunch time

The Recreation Office is offering four different fitness classes this fall.   
  
**Yoga** classes are held Tuesdays and Fridays from noon to 1 p.m. in the Martial Arts Room at the East Field House.  
  
**Yoga /Pilates** classes take place on Thursdays from noon to 1 p.m. in the Activity Room at the East Field House.  
  
**Express Workout** classes are Mondays and Wednesdays from 12:15 to 12:55 p.m. at the Wellness Center.  
  
**Noontime Walks** (new this fall) around the campus, led by campus recreation supervisor Kathy Ferraro, take place on October 1 and 29 (meet at the sand volleyball courts at the East Field House) and on October 15 and November 5, (meet in front of the West Field House at College Eight).

### **EAP offers overseas opportunities for faculty: Deadline to apply is October 8**

UC faculty are invited to play a crucial role in shaping California's future in the world community by taking a position as an Education Abroad Study Center director. Study center directors provide global training and context for the next generation of California leaders. They assure harmonious relations with UC's partner universities and serve as instructor of record for academic work undertaken by EAP students. Directors also identify distinctive learning opportunities at EAP's partner institutions abroad and provide expert analysis of international educational systems and institutions.  
  
All tenured faculty members of the Academic Senate, including lecturers with security of employment, and emeriti faculty may apply. Fluency in the language of the host country and a broad knowledge of the host country are major qualifications; length of appointment varies from one-semester to one-year and two-year appointments depending on the program.  
  
UOEAP currently has 17 openings in the following countries: **Egypt, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Netherlands, Russia, Scandinavia (Denmark/Sweden), Spain, UK/Ireland (London), and Vietnam.  
  
**The deadline for submitting applications is: **Monday, October 8.** For more information, visit the [EAP web site.][4] For an application, contact Suzanne King at: [academicaffairs@uoeap.ucsb.edu][5].

### Staff and faculty mentors sought

The Page and Eloise Smith Scholastic Society is bringing together UCSC alumni, faculty, and staff to serve the educational aspirations of UCSC students who are foster children, wards of the court, and orphans. There are over 40 of these students on campus this fall. They are receiving scholarships from the Page and Eloise Smith Scholastic Society, but they will also need other help.   
  
Can you help someone through the registration process? Could you correspond occasionally via e-mail with a student needing advice about a major? Perhaps you could help a new student connect with just the right faculty member to explore their visions or goals. If you are interested in any level of mentorship relationship with a current student who has been a foster child, ward of the court, or orphan, please contact Lynn Zachreson in the Alumni Office at (831) 459-5842.

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][8]  

[1]: mailto:workshop@cats.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/staff/studentcorps.html
[3]: http://www.goslugs.com/clubsports/dance/dance.html
[4]: http://www.uoeap.ucsb.edu/Faculty/default.htm
[5]: mailto:academicaffairs@uoeap.ucsb.edu
[6]: ../../construction.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-01/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
