---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

A ceremony celebrating the newly refurbished blue whale skeleton at Long Marine Lab was covered by the _Santa Cruz Sentinel,_ radio station KSCO, and TV stations KION, KSBW, and KSMS. Campus veterinarian **Dave Casper,** Seymour Center director **Julie Barrett Heffington,** and youth programs manager **Kevin Keedy** were among those featured in the coverage. In addition, a TV crew from Sacramento station KOVR was at Long Marine Lab recently to get footage of the whale skeleton and to interview researcher **Baldo Marinovic** for a special program on whales.  
  
Coverage of the February 28 earthquake in the Seattle area on local TV station KSBW included an interview with **Justin Revenaugh,** associate professor of Earth sciences.  
  
The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran an article about the presentations by UCSC researchers at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in San Francisco. Featured in the story were astronomers **Jerry Nelson, Michael Bolte, Douglas N. C. Lin, Garth Illingworth, David Koo,** and **Puragra Guhathakurta,** and professor of physics **Joel Primack.  
  
**Professor of physics **Michael Dine** was quoted in an article about efforts to understand the difference between matter and antimatter. The article appeared in ScienceNow, the online news service of _Science_ magazine.   
  
Professor emeritus of biology **John Pearse** was quoted in an article in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about invasive nonnative species in Elkhorn Slough.  
  
The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about **Charles McDowell,** professor of computer science, who was named a Carnegie Scholar for 2001-02.  
  
  
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-05/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
