---
layout: post
title: "Event to focus on creating 'a new campus downtown'"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 261
images:
---

<p>
  Dear Faculty and Staff:<br>
  <br>
  You are invited to attend a very special and important campus event.<br>
  <br>
  Student Leadership Development and Social Responsibility is hosting a<br>
  universitywide "Town Hall Topical" event (formerly called Campus<br>
  Leadership Retreats). This year's event will focus on creating additional<br>
  campuswide student life opportunities as we open up "a new campus downtown."<br>
  <br>
  As the Student Union and Graduate Student Commons, Ethnic Resource Centers, SOAR, the Career Center, graduate and undergraduate student government offices, and a variety of registered student organizations prepare to relocate to the Bay Tree/Quarry area, our university community has an excellent opportunity to think about how we can all work together creatively to expand co-curricular programs and services for our students.<br>
  <br>
  Developing the Bay Tree/Quarry area as a vibrant "campus downtown," poised to meet the growing needs of the multiple on- and off-campus communities that comprise our unique university, will be highlighted in the Town Hall discussion.<br>
  <br>
  In the past, this event has provided an exciting opportunity for students,<br>
  staff, and faculty to come together to share ideas and collaborate on<br>
  campus issues. I encourage the UCSC faculty and staff community to join<br>
  the students in this timely dialogue.<br>
  <br>
  MARK YOUR CALENDARS<br>
  <br>
  Topic: Creating a New Campus Downtown: The Center for Campuswide Student Life<br>
  Tuesday, April 17, 2001<br>
  4:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.<br>
  Cowell Dining Hall<br>
  Dinner is included<br>
  <br>
  <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/sdcs.tht">RSVP</a> by April 13.<br>
  <br>
  Call or e-mail questions to: <a href="mailto:%20kasims@cats">Kelli Sims</a> at (831) 459-5489.<br>
  <br>
  Sincerely,<br>
  <br>
  John Holloway<br>
  Executive Director<br>
  Student Development and Community Service<br>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/04-09/downtown.html "Permalink to downtown")
