---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/penhoet.140.jpg
    - caption: "Dean Edward Penhoet, UC Berkeley School of Public Health"
  -
    - file: ../art/whitaker_on_Everest.150.jpg
    - caption: "Jim Whittaker on Mt. Everest"
  -
    - file: ../art/quilt.200.jpg
    - caption: "Child Care Services will hold a benefit drawing for a quilt, above, created by UCSC staff member Pele Fleming with drawings by children at the Children's Center, the Granary Child Development Center, and the School Age Center."
---

#### Child Care Services to hold quilt fundraiser and open house

Child Care Services will hold an Open House on April 17 from 10 to 11:30 a.m. and 3:15 to 5:30 p.m. at the three child care programs located at 599 Koshland Way in Family Student Housing and at the Granary Child Development Center (at the base of campus).

On display at the open house will be a beautiful quilt, created by Pele Fleming, who works in the Housing, Dining & Child Care Facilities office, as a fundraiser for child care programs. The quilt incorporates pencil drawings of faces by children at the Children's Center, Granary Child Development Center, and School Age Center. A drawing for the quilt will begin at the open house. Proceeds will go toward the improvement of play yards in all UCSC child care programs.

At the open house, the campus community is invited to observe in the classrooms, meet staff and families, share refreshments, and see the quilt. The quilt is currently on display in the office of Vice Chancellor Francisco Hernandez and will move to the Women's Center the fourth week of April.

#### UC Berkeley dean to give talk on fundraising for health sciences

Edward E. Penhoet, dean of the School of Public Health at UC Berkeley, will give a public lecture on "Securing Resources for Health Sciences Initiatives Without a Medical School" on Thursday, April 12. The talk will take place from 4 to 5 p.m. in Room 152, Jack Baskin Engineering Building. An informal reception will be held after the lecture.  
  
Penhoet is a professor of public health and of molecular and cell biology at UC Berkeley. He is also a director and cofounder of Chiron Corporation, one of the world's leading biotechnology companies. Penhoet served as Chiron's president and CEO from the time he cofounded the company in 1981 until 1998.   
  
UC Berkeley launched its $500 million Health Sciences Initiative in 1999. The initiative is dedicated to advancing human health and development through creative integration of disciplines that cut across biological, behavioral, and environmental issues.

#### Women's Center invites young artists to exhibit their work

Children of UC staff, students, and faculty are invited to participate in a Children's Art Show, a celebration of children in our community. Art may be in any medium and can even be a collaborative, intergenerational project. Artists must be between 3-13 years of age.

The show will take place at the Women's Center Gallery May 12-20. A reception/party for the show will be held on Sunday, May 13. The Women's Center is also looking for adults and/or children who would like to perform, recite, or even tell a story for the show's opening reception. For more information or to indicate your interest in participation in the show or the reception, contact Donna at (831) 458-1982 (between 5-7 p.m.) or Helen at (831) 459-2291.

#### An evening with legendary climber and adventurer Jim Whittaker

On Thursday, April 12, legendary climber and adventurer Jim Whittaker will present "A Life on the Edge - Memoirs of Everest and Beyond" at Porter College Dining Hall. Whittaker was the first North American to summit Mount Everest. He was also the first manager and employee, and ultimately the CEO, of fledgling Recreational Equipment, Inc. (REI), which he guided through years of record-setting growth. He guided Bobby Kennedy up the newly named Mount Kennedy, helping him to become the first person to summit the Canadian peak. He led the first and only International Peace Climb, which put climbers from the U.S., Russia, and China on the summit of Everest in the name of world peace. The presentation is a benefit for the UCSC adventure outings scholarships

There will be a book signing at 7:30 p.m. and the slide show begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are  
$3/students, $6/general; tickets will be available at the door.

#### Call for Intel ISEF judges

From May 6 to 12, 1,200 high school students from nearly 50 countries will be in San Jose to participate in the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. Intel ISEF needs judges to review science and engineering projects. All students have already won local or national science fairs and are now competing for over $3 million in cash, prizes, and scholarships. The two top students will be VIP guests of the next Nobel Prize ceremony in Stockholm.   
  
Judges should have a Ph.D., M.D. or at least six years of professional experience in a research field. Judges are needed in the 14 subject categories of ISEF: behavioral and social sciences, biochemistry, botany, chemistry, computer science, Earth and space science, engineering, environmental science, gerontology, mathematics, medicine and health, microbiology, physics, and zoology.   
  
If interested in judging, or for more information, contact Donna Gerardi Riordan: at (831) 459-1311 or [donna.riordan@adm.ucsc.edu][1].

#### **Education Abroad Program** recruiting for **southern cycle programs**

The Education Abroad Program is currently advising and accepting applications for the programs in the following countries: Mexico, Brazil, Chili, Costa Rica, Australia, New Zealand, Philippines, Hong Kong, Japan, South Africa, Denmark, Italy, Netherlands, and Spain.

Interested students may call (831) 459-2858, e-mail alien@cats.ucsc.edu, or visit the [Office of International Education][2], online or in person at 205 Classroom Unit Building. _The last day students can receive an application for these programs is_ _Monday, April 16, 2001._

#### Student Achievement Award applications due April 20

Student research will be celebrated during Student Achievement Week, May 29 through June 1. Undergraduate students are encouraged to submit their research projects, such as their senior thesis, to their division (Arts, Engineering, Humanities, Natural Sciences, or Social Sciences) for consideration for student achievement awards. Deans' Awards (10 from each division), Chancellor's Awards (three chosen from the 10 awarded by each division), and the Steck Award (chosen from the 15 Chancellor's Award recipients) will be presented at a ceremony at University House on Friday, June 1. Students interested in applying should contact their division or department office for information. The deadline to apply is Friday, April 20**. **For more information, contact Dianne Wright in the Campus Provost/Executive Vice Chancellor's Office at (831) 459-5386, or [dwright@cats.ucsc.edu][3].

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][4]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][5] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][6]

  

[1]: mailto:donna.riordan@adm.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/oie/
[3]: mailto:dwright@cats.ucsc.edu
[4]: ../../construction.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/04-02/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
