---
layout: post
title: "kang"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/kang_steve.01-10-01.180.jpg
    - caption: "Steve Kang, who received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from UC Berkeley in 1975, is dean of UCSC's Baskin School of Engineering. Photo: UCSC Photo Services"
---

**Kang honored by UC Berkeley as outstanding alumnus in electrical engineering**

Steve Kang, dean of the Baskin School of Engineering, has been honored as an outstanding alumnus by the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley. Kang received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from UC Berkeley in 1975.

The Outstanding Alumnus Award in Electrical Engineering was established to recognize valuable contributions and outstanding performance by Berkeley alumni in the areas of research and engineering achievements, leadership in the profession and in public affairs, and service and support to the university. The award presentation took place on Friday, September 21, at the EECS 2001 Best of Berkeley Industrial Affiliates Conference, and was followed by a luncheon in Kang's honor.  
  
"It is truly a great honor to get recognition from my home department," Kang said. "The excellent education I received from my teachers at Berkeley has been most important and influential in my career thus far."  
  
A national leader in his field, Kang came to UC Santa Cruz in January 2001 from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he was professor and department head of electrical and computer engineering. Kang's research interests include computer chip design (specifically, methods of very large-scale integration, or VLSI) and optimization of chip design for performance, reliability, and manufacturability; modeling and simulation of semiconductor devices and circuits; high-speed optoelectronic circuits; and fully optical network systems. He holds six patents, has published more than 300 technical papers, and has coauthored eight books.   
  
Kang is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), and the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). He is a foreign member of the National Academy of Engineering of Korea and the recipient of numerous national and international awards and honors.  
  
  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-01/kang.html "Permalink to kang")
