---
layout: post
title: "Tech grants aim to support faculty, strengthen campuses and solve problems"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 10
images:
---

<p>
  The UC Office of the President has designated $200,000 in grants for instructors wishing to expand the use of new technologies as teaching and learning mechanisms.The Teaching, Learning, and Technology Collaborative Grant funds will be given out yearly through 2005 in support of innovative projects and to help foster various partnerships throughout the campuses.<br>
  <br>
  In addition to the grant, faculty efforts in the development and use of technologies will be highlighted and supported through the new University of California Teaching, Learning and Technology Center. A "center-without-walls," the center aims to support faculty efforts as a benefit to the entire university.<br>
  <br>
  Through these efforts, the university will rely on faculty to explore and uncover solutions that improve the quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of teaching and learning through the use of new technologies. Some of the challenges facing UC today include state demography changes, and evolving economic and cultural needs and expectations.<br>
  <br>
  According to Eileen Tanner, director for the Center for Teaching Excellence, "This is a wonderful opportunity for faculty to form partnerships to leverage individual efforts for the benefit of students throughout the state."<br>
  <br>
  Tanner is asking staff and faculty to keep the grants in mind as the subject of e-learning arises and there is a potential for a TLtC grant. Ideal applicants should already be using technology effectively in the context of instruction and are ready to engage in a collaboration, according to the center.<br>
  <br>
  Both full-scale implementation grants and mini-grants are available. Proposals for full-scale implementation grants, worth up to $75,000, must be received by April, 18, 2001. The first round of proposals for feasibility and/or planning mini-grants must be received by February 1, 200; the second round due April 18, 2001. Mini-grants are awarded up to $5,000.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  Copies of the 2000-01 Call for Proposals are available from CTE, and grant information can be accessed online at <a href="http://www.ucop.edu/acadinit/tltc/">http://www.ucop.edu/acadinit/tltc/</a>. Tanner may be reached at 459-5091 or via e-mail at <a href="eileen@cats.ucsc.edu">eileen@cats.ucsc.edu</a>.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/grants.html "Permalink to grants")
