---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

The campus has enjoyed several major "media hits" recently, including** Daniel Press** in environmental studies, who made a case for residential solar panels in an op-ed that appeared in the _San Jose Mercury News_.

Research on minke whales by professor of ecology and evolutionary biology **Daniel Costa** and graduate student **Jason Gedamke** is featured in the February issue of _National Geographic._ In the magazine's "Update from the Field" section on National Geographic-sponsored research, a striking photo spread across two pages shows Gedamke diving alongside a dwarf minke whale.

**Ellen Moir** of the New Teacher Center participated in a post-inauguration panel discussion on KGO-TV about the future of education.

Economist **Rob Fairlie's** recent media exposure included the _San Jose Mercury News_, which covered the recent decline in self-employment.

Research on toxic algal blooms by **Mary Silver, **professor of ocean sciences, was the subject of stories that appeared in the _Monterey County Herald, San Jose Mercury News, _and_ Santa Cruz Sentinel._

Donald Matthews, visiting professor in American studies, was featured in an article regarding race and divisive local view points in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_. _  
  
_Sociology's **Dane Archer** stepped up to the plate and did an interview about the power crisis for National Public Radio's "Morning Edition"--from Hawaii, where he's on leave.

Political scientist **Peter Euben** participated in a recent three-day "Hollywood ethics" conference, covered by the _Los Angeles Times_.

**Susanne Jonas** of Latin American and Latino studies penned a letter about U.S. relations with Cuba that was published in the _New York Times_.

A crew flew in from Germany's Spiegel TV to interview psychology's **Craig Haney** about the Stanford Prison Experiment and treatment of inmates.

**Bill Domhoff** continues to research dreams and was quoted recently in a _Los Angeles Times _article.  
  
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-29/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
