---
layout: post
title: "rainbow"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rainbow.01-10-15.180.jpg
    - caption: 
---

**Rainbow Theater troupe presents multicultural one-act plays**  
  
Stevenson College will present four productions by Rainbow Theater for its eighth annual season of multicultural one-act plays this fall. The productions are designed to increase awareness of the cultural climate at UCSC and in the city of Santa Cruz.   
  

The group's artistic purpose is to create unity, increase visibility and understanding of various ethnic groups, and encourage the celebration of American ethnic diversity and culture.  
  
The first two plays, _Waiting to End Hell_ and _Poet's Corner,_ will be performed** **October 25 and 27 at Stevenson Dining Hall, and November 3 at Louden Nelson Community Center in Santa Cruz.  
  
_Waiting to End Hell,_ by William A. Parker,** **will be directed by Lanaya Irvin and Rodney McKenzie Jr. The play centers on three African American couples raising various issues revolving around sex, gender, race, and religion. Through the roles of Dante and Diane, a space is created for the viewers to critically analyze male/female roles in a relationship.  
  
_Poet's Corner_ is a collective raw expression of voice, movement, and sound of multicultural youth, directed by Eden Jequinto.  
  
Two other plays, _Por Un Movimiento Nuevo_ and _Coconut Masquerade,_ will be shown October 26 and 28 at Stevenson Dining Hall and November 2 at Louden Nelson Community Center.  
  
_Por Un Movimiento Nuevo,_ by Kiko Dominguez, is directed by Yadira De La Riva. The play proposes a new social movement by making an important association between working _Mejicanos_ in El Paso and the guerilla movement in Chiapas, and how both have been affected by the North American Free Trade Agreement. The play was written for working communities of El Paso, Texas, a border city, to bring individual struggles into a bigger social and political perspective.  
  
_Coconut Masquerade,_ by Melinda Corazon Foley, is directed by Marie-Reine Velez and Taylor Epstein. The production addresses Asian American identity in a unique manner. The play is written in rhythmic verse and is influenced by developments in spoken, hip-hop, adult alternative, and children's tales. Whirlwind family images of a haunted past descend upon Maya Collins. Driven by profound longing and the encouragement of Ima, a wild and ghostly elder, Maya revisits the childhood foundation where something went bitter at the roots.  
  
UCSC Stevenson College, UCSC Student Affairs, UCSC Admissions, the City of Santa Cruz Commission, and the African American Theater Arts Troupe are cosponsors of this year's presentation of Rainbow Theater.   
  
Tickets, $4 for students with identification and $6 for adults, must be purchased at the door. Tickets for all four plays are available at $6 for students with ID and $8 for adults.   
**  
**  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-15/rainbow.html "Permalink to rainbow")
