---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/teeter.totter.jpg
    - caption: "Fraternity raises money for rape prevention On Friday May 4, seniors Christopher Rodgers, far right, and Aaron Villalobos teeter-tottered at the start of an annual event held by Theta Chi fraternity. The weekend teeter-totter marathon raised $700 for rape-prevention efforts on campus. photo: Louise Donahue"
---

#### **'Satyajit Ray at Eighty'**

The Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies is having a Satyajit Ray film festival. Titled "[Satyajit Ray at Eighty][1]," the weekend-long event will take place on May 19 and 20 at the Media Theater in the Theater Arts Center. Three films will be shown--[_**Sonar Kella **_][2](The Golden Fortress), [_**Seemabaddha **_][3](Company Ltd.)**_, _**and [_**Shatranj Ke Khiladi**_][4] (The Chess Players)--all 35mm, new prints from recently restored negatives. There will also be a symposium on Ray's work and a banquet at the West Coast Santa Cruz Hotel. For details and to make a reservation, call (831) 459-4012 or (831) 423-6553, or e-mail [dkbasu@cats.ucsc.edu][5].

#### Campus police targeting seat belt violations

As part of a nationwide effort to increase the use of seat belts by children in vehicles, the campus police will be targeting seat belt violations and child passenger safety laws during the week of May 21-28. The Police Department will have extra patrols on during that week specifically looking for those cars that do not have their children properly restrained.

#### Seminar celebrates Science Library's 10th anniversary

"Scholarly Publishing In Higher Education" is the title of a seminar that will be held on Wednesday, May 16, from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Current Periodicals Room of the Science Library. The seminar, which is being held in celebration of the 10th Anniversary of the Science Library, features two speakers, Paul Ginsparg from the Los Alamos National Laboratory and Catherine Candee, director of eScholarship for the California Digital Library, who will address issues related to new methods of scholarly communication in an electronic environment such as:

* Should researchers consider maintaining some aspect of copyright control on the material they submit for publication?
* What new alternatives in scholarly publishing are available?
* What is the scholar's role in the economics of electronic publishing?
* How can quality and adequate peer review be maintained in the digital environment?

The event is sponsored by: Division of Natural Sciences, School of Engineering, Office of Research, University Library, and the Librarians Association of the University of California. Refreshments will be provided.

#### Take Back the Night candlelight march

On May 17 staff and faculty are invited to join hundreds of UCSC students to once again Take Back the Night. This powerful event unites those who want to end violence, including abuse, sexual assault, and rape, against women, by bringing awareness to this important issue. A rally begins at 6:30 p.m. at the UCSC Student Center. There will be a men's forum during the women's candlelight march through campus; the evening ends with testimonials. For more information, contact Michelle via e-mail at bell_jar@cats.ucsc.edu or call the Women's Center at (831) 459-2072.

#### KZSC Spring Pledge Drive under way

Commercial-free, student radio KZSC 88.1 FM will hold its spring pledge drive May 9-22. KZSC offers a wide variety of shows ranging from public affairs and news to jazz, world beat, rock, and hip-hop. Step up and support KUSP during the spring pledge drive.

#### Information sessions for assistant professors

Academic Human Resources will hold information sessions for assistant professors on Wednesday, May 23, from 3 to 5 p.m. in 325 McHenry Library, and Thursday, May 24, from 10 a.m. to noon in 325 McHenry Library (you only need to attend one session). These sessions are intended to help assistant professors understand some of the policies and procedures in academic personnel reviews. Contact Nancy Furber, Academic Human Resources, (831) 459-4779 or furber@cats.ucsc.edu to register.

#### UC-affiliated American University of Armenia seeks vice president and dean of faculty

The American University of Armenia (AUA), a UC-affiliated institution providing graduate education programs in the former Soviet republic, is seeking candidates for the position of vice president and dean of faculty. Established in 1991, AUA is an independent, privately endowed American institution. The language of instruction is English. The position is located in Armenia and begins January 1, 2002. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience, and benefits include housing and round-trip travel. Additional information about the position, along with instructions for submitting nominations and applications, is available on the web at: [www.aua.am/aua/faculty/info4.htm][6]

#### Revised editorial style guide available on web

_A Guide to Editorial Style at the University of California, Santa Cruz,_ is posted on the web at the following address: [http://pio.ucsc.edu/style_guide.html][7]  
The editorial style guide is useful to all campus units preparing printed or online communications. It establishes a consistent editorial style for the campus and answers some frequently asked questions about general editorial usage and style. A list of further reference sources is appended. If you have questions, contact lance@cats.ucsc.edu.

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][8]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][9] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][10]

  

[1]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/rayFASC/events.html
[2]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/rayfasc/*sonarkella.html
[3]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/rayfasc/*seemabaddha.html
[4]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/rayfasc/*shatranj.html
[5]: mailto:dkbasu@cats.ucsc.edu
[6]: http://www.aua.am/aua/faculty/info4.htm
[7]:  http://pio.ucsc.edu/style_guide.html
[8]: ../../construction.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/05-14/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
