---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1368
images:
---

<p>
  Media coverage of the UCSC Human Genome Symposium included stories in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Good Times,</i> and <i>Metro Santa Cruz.</i> KSCO and KGO radio, and television stations KION, KRUZ, and C-SPAN also covered the event. In addition, professor of computer science <b>David Haussler</b> was interviewed on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay.</i> UCSC's role in the Human Genome Project was also in the news due to publication of a technical article by Haussler and biology graduate student <b>Jim Kent</b> about their technique for assembling the human genome sequence. The UPI wire service and Wired News ran stories about their work.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer's</b> work on a wage-insurance proposal made the front page of the <i>Wall Street Journal</i>. Speaking of labor issues, <b>Dana Frank</b> penned an op-ed for the <i>San Francisco Chronicle's</i> Sunday "Insight" section about labor activism, and was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the 10-year anniversary of the air traffic controllers' strike.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about the influx of indigenous Indians working as farmworkers and migrant laborers.<br>
  <br>
  The bald eagle satellite tracking program of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group (SCPBRG) and staff biologist <b>Janet Linthicum</b> were featured recently on Salon.com and CCN Headline News.<br>
  <br>
  Research by assistant professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug</b> and a collaborator on the formation of the moon by a Mars-size object striking the Earth some 4.5 billion years ago was covered by <i>Time</i> magazine, the Associated Press, UPI, the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Dallas Morning News,</i> <i>San Diego Union-Tribune,</i> and a variety of other newspapers.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of Earth sciences <b>Steven Ward</b> and a collaborator found that a volcano in the Canary Islands may eventually collapse and trigger a tsunami that could hit the East Coast of North America with, in the worst-case scenario, waves as high as 70 feet. Their findings were reported by the Associated Press, UPI, and Reuters wire services, the <i>San Diego Union-Tribune,</i> and other newspapers.<br>
  <br>
  Dream researcher <b>Bill Domhoff</b> was quoted in a lengthy <i>Newsday</i> article on the state of the field.<br>
  <br>
  Historian <b>Peter Kenez</b> penned a lengthy piece on the mood in Hungary for the <i>The</i> <i>New Leader.<br>
  <br></i>Anthropologist <b>Triloki Pandey</b> fielded a call from the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> in the wake of the murder of India's folk heroine Phoolan Devi, a notorious bandit who became a member of Parliament known for championing the rights of the poor.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies discussed a World Bank report on rising poverty in Mexico in <i>La Jornada.</i><br>
  <br>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-03/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
