---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 204
images:
---

<p>
  <b>Chancellor Greenwood</b> appeared on ABC's <i>Nightline</i> in a segment on "The Big Test." She was explaining the reasons the University of California is considering abandoning the SAT as part of its admissions requirements.
</p>
<p>
  Arboretum manager <b>Brett Hall</b> was featured in an article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about the dazzling collection of plants from the Southern Hemisphere at the UCSC Arboretum.
</p>
<p>
  ABC's <i>Primetime Live</i> featured a segment on the work of psychology's <b>Dominic Massaro</b>, whose research is helping deaf children learn to speak. . . . During the same broadcast, host Diane Sawyer used a clip of sociologist <b>Dane Archer's</b> interpersonal perception task to illustrate the challenge of detecting lies.
</p>
<p>
  Social psychologist <b>Elliot Aronson</b> fielded several media calls in the wake of the Santee school shooting, including inquiries from the <i>New York Times</i> and KQED Radio in San Francisco, which invited him to appear on <i>Forum,</i> their public affairs call-in show.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Chicago Tribune</i> about the earthquake that rattled Seattle recently quoted professor of Earth sciences <b>Eli Silver,</b> who commented that the quake might have caused more damage if it had hit closer to the surface. The story also ran in the <i>Orange County Register</i> and other newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  Dream expert <b>Bill Domhoff</b> was mentioned in a lengthy <i>Chicago Tribune Magazine</i> article about dreams, and the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> recently covered his research, too.
</p>
<p>
  Journalism's <b>Conn Hallinan</b> wrote an op-ed for the <i>San Francisco Examiner</i> about the unnerving prospect that modern high-tech warfare could desensitize the citizenry to the realities of being a nation at war.
</p>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Dan Wirls</b> went outside his usual realm to weigh in on the lyrics of music phenomenon Eminem in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> op-ed piece that he reports has generated considerable positive response from readers. . . . Also in the <i>Sentinel,</i> economist <b>Dan Friedman</b> had advice for investors during last week's wild ride on Wall Street, while psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> and <b>Veronica Tonay</b> offered tips on the do's and don'ts of shopping when you're depressed.<br>
  <br>
  Assistant professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug</b> was interviewed recently about his asteroid research for a new series on PAX TV called <i>Encounters with the Unexplained,</i> a weekly series beginning in August.<br>
  <br>
  We all knew it, but it's nice to hear someone else say it. An article in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about the biotech industry noted that "Growth in the Bay Area is in part fueled by research at UC Berkeley, Stanford University, and UC Santa Cruz, which has one of the most respected bioinformatics programs in the nation."<br>
  <br>
  <br>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-19/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
