---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

In the wake of the September 11 attacks, many campus scholars are sharing their time and expertise with the public. Historian **Terry Burke** was interviewed by the _Christian Science Monitor_ for a story about the use of the word "terrorist" in conjunction with the attacks, and he also made a case in the _Monitor _for more in-depth media coverage of the diversity of Middle Eastern societies and cultures. . . . **Alan Richards** of environmental studies appeared on Minnesota Public Radio's "Marketplace Morning Report" to discuss the role oil will play in the way the war on terrorism is fought. . . . **Barbara Epstein** of the History of Consciousness Department was quoted in a _San Antonio Express-News_ story about youth reaction to world events. . . . Psychology's **Anthony Pratkanis** has fielded numerous calls about war propaganda from media outlets, including the _Baltimore Sun_, the _Los Angeles Times_, the _Kansas City Star_, the _Toronto Star_, and the _Sacramento Bee_. He discussed public reaction to the attacks with the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_, and he talked about research directions for psychologists in the aftermath of September 11 with the _Monitor_, which is published by the American Psychological Association. . . . Sociologist **Paul Lubeck** made a second appearance on KUSP's "Talk of the Bay" program to discuss diversity in Islam, and political scientist **Mike Urban** discussed Russia's role in U.S. antiterrorist strategy on BBC Radio.

Regional media converged on Long Marine Lab to cover the arrival of a sea otter named Morgan, who has joined another otter, Wick, in a research program headed by associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology **Terrie Williams** and graduate student **Laura Yeates.** Trainers **Brett Long** and **Traci Fink** were also featured in the coverage, which included TV stations KSBW and KION, the _Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Francisco Chronicle,_ and _Monterey Herald._   
  
**Mark Carr,** associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in the _Santa Barbara News Press_ in an article about a controversial plan to convert old oil rigs into artificial reefs. Carr coauthored a report from the UC Marine Council on "Ecological Issues Related to Decommissioning of California's Offshore Production Platforms."  
  
Assistant professor of Earth sciences **Erik Asphaug** was widely quoted in stories about new images of the asteroid Eros obtained by the NEAR spacecraft. Asphaug wrote a commentary accompanying the publication of the images in the journal _Nature._ He was quoted in stories from the _Washington Post, New York Times, USA Today,_ the _Independent_ (London), Associated Press, U.P.I., Agence France Presse, and _New Scientist_ magazine.

**Rob Fairlie** of economics was interviewed by a reporter from the _Christian Science Monitor_ about immigrant entrepreneurs, and a reporter from _American Demographics_ magazine quoted him on recent trends in self-employed business owners.

[Return to Front Page][1]
[1]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-15/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
