---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

The terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C., prompted media calls to several UCSC faculty members, including psychology's **Elliot Aronson**, who was called by a _New York Times_ reporter. The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ immediately tapped political scientists **Ronnie Lipschutz **and** Dan Wirls**, as well as political economist **Alan Richards**, for insights into the tragic events. Lipschutz and Richards appeared on KUSP's _Talk of the Bay,_ and Lipschutz and economist **David Kaun **appeared on BTU-FM. On other subjects, Kaun spent an hour with host Mort Mecklosky on WUSB-FM, the SUNY at Stony Brook radio station, discussing the Bush administration's economic policies. Kaun was also interviewed by Max Prinzal of KPFA news on the same subject.

**Erik Asphaug, **assistant professor of Earth sciences, was a guest on National Public Radio's "Talk of the Nation/Science Friday," discussing how to defend the Earth against collisions with asteroids.

Economist **Lori Kletzer** figured prominently in the _Santa Cruz_ _Sentinel'_s recent coverage of the loss of manufacturing jobs locally, and she followed that up with an appearance on KSCO Radio. . . . Speaking of jobs, **Dana Frank** of American studies published an op-ed on Labor Day in the _San Francisco Chronicle_ about the state of the labor movement in the country, and she also appeared on Santa Cruz community television. Her new book, _Three Strikes,_ made the "Hot Type" section of the _Chronicle of Higher Education_ and was reviewed by the _Chicago Tribune._

Political scientist **Michael Urban** appeared twice on CNN in conjunction with the August anniversary of the 1991 coup in Russia. He also appeared on Russian radio's "A Foreign Body" show, an hour-long broadcast that invites foreign guests to discuss Russia "through the eyes of a foreigner."  
  
The tsunami research of geophysicist **Steven Ward** continued to garner news coverage. Ward was interviewed on CNN about his recent analysis of the potential for a volcanic eruption to generate a tsunami in the Atlantic Ocean, and reports of his findings ran in many newspapers, including the _Dallas Morning News_ and the _Financial Times_ of London. Also, the _San Francisco Chronicle_ ran a story about Ward's research on the potential for an undersea landslide to generate a tsunami in Monterey Bay.

Educational Partnership Center director **Carrol Moran** and students from the Early Academic Outreach Program appeared on KUSP Radio.   
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-17/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
