---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1301
images:
---

<p>
  UCSC's ranking of #2 worldwide for research in the physical sciences prompted stories by the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> KQED Radio, and KRON TV. <b>David Kliger,</b> dean of natural sciences, and <b>David Dorfan,</b> professor and chair of physics, were featured in the stories.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies coauthored an op-ed for the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about environmental pollution in schools and the potential health impacts on children of air pollution.<br>
  <br>
  Research on minke whales by graduate student <b>Jason Gedamke</b> and biology professor <b>Daniel Costa</b> continues to generate coverage, including stories in the <i>Washington Post</i> and <i>Science News</i> magazine. Gedamke was also interviewed by <i>Discover</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> hit Marketplace Radio's airwaves with a commentary about her wage-insurance proposal. Also in economics, <b>Robert Fairlie</b> was quoted in <i>Business Week</i> recently and was interviewed by <i>USA Today</i> about his research on Asian American owned businesses.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a major story in the Sunday business section on research by <b>Ali Shakouri,</b> assistant professor of electrical engineering, to develop microrefrigerators for cooling computer chips.
</p>
<p>
  Word about sociologist <b>Marcia Millman's</b> new book on romance continues to circumnavigate the globe with a review appearing in the <i>African Sun Times.</i><br>
  <br>
  An article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> on the influence of corporate donors on UC campuses included quotes from <b>Stan Woosley,</b> professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, and <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of computer science and director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Good Times</i> weekly newspaper ran a profile of <b>Sandra Faber,</b> University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, who was recently elected to the American Philosophical Society.<br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/07-09/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
