---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 222
images:
---

<p>
  <b>Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood</b> hit a doubleheader this week with an op-ed on federal science funding appearing in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and a quote in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article on the same subject.
</p>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Michael Brown</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> as the paper prepared to receive California Census 2000 data.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor and composer <b>David Cope</b> was interviewed by the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about his work and the upcoming performance of three pieces in the style of Bach at the Santa Cruz Baroque Festival. <b>Nicole Paiement</b>, associate professor of music, and <b>Linda Burman-Hall</b>, professor of music, were also mentioned in the article.
</p>
<p>
  Office of Sponsored Projects director <b>Bill Clark</b> wrote a two-part story of his recent trip to Cuba for the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
  <br>
  <b>Roberta Valdez</b> of the Women's Center has been out drumming up support for the upcoming Expanding Your Horizons conference on science and math for young girls. She appeared on KZSC recently and will be on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> show on Tuesday, March 27.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>, a visiting fellow with the Institute for International Economics in Washington, D.C., this year, was quoted in a CBS <i>Marketwatch</i> article on gender and job loss.<br>
  <br>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-26/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
