---
layout: post
title: "Resolution clarifies senate role in development of new Silicon Valley Center"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 193
images:
---

<p>
  <font color="#003333">By</font> <a href="mailto:jrburns@cats.ucsc.edu">Jim Burns</a>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC's Academic Senate requested on Thursday (March 8) that three of its committees work closely with the administration to develop academic programs for the new Silicon Valley Center. The senate also asked that its committees and the administration agree on a schedule for developing and implementing the center's academic plan.
</p>
<p>
  The requests, discussed during a second session of the senate's winter-quarter meeting, received near-unanimous approval of the senate.
</p>
<p>
  Specifically, the senate asked that:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Its Graduate Council and Committee on Educational Policy (CEP) "consider the overall feasibility and quality of the curriculum to be offered at the Silicon Valley Center when approving individual programs and courses to be offered there."
  </li>
  <li>Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and Campus Provost/Executive Vice Chancellor John Simpson "reach mutual agreement" with the Graduate Council, CEP, and Committee on Planning and Budget (CPB) about the "timeline for producing and implementing a phased, comprehensive plan" for the center. The senate also asked for an opportunity to review that plan before it is implemented.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  As part of the approved resolution, the senate also requested that, at its spring-quarter meeting, the Graduate Council, CEP, and CPB report on their discussions with Greenwood and Simpson "in the context of overall planning for growth."
</p>
<p>
  The center, to be located at NASA Ames Research Park, is expected to serve as a portal to the UC system, connecting all of the campuses to Silicon Valley, especially in the areas of research. The University of California and NASA share many research areas of interest and strengths, such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, planetary sciences, and astrobiology. In addition, research is expected to be conducted on issues of social justice, education, labor, and economics, among other topics.
</p>
<p>
  It is expected that UCSC will offer classes for both undergraduates and graduate students at the Silicon Valley Center
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-12/senate.html "Permalink to senate")
