---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1487
images:
---

<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> recently published a lengthy profile of forensic anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway</b>. The reporter actually tracked down the mother of a victim whose death Galloway had investigated in 1998.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lynda Goff</b> discussed UCSC's new partnership with King's College London and the Exploratorium on KSCO Radio and with the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Judy Yung</b> was interviewed by a <i>Tri-Valley Herald</i> reporter for a story about the Angel Island Immigration Station.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> continues to field calls about September 11, most recently from the <i>American Association of Retired Persons Bulletin,</i> with whom he discussed potential economic fraud scams that are likely to appear in the aftermath of the attacks. He also completed a second interview with the <i>Baltimore Sun,</i> this time analyzing the transcripts of radio broadcasts the United States is broadcasting in Afghanistan.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was pleased to see her book, <i>Of Centaurs and Doves,</i> cited in a major article on Guatemala that appeared in the <i>New York Review of Books.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Michael Hutchison</b> was similarly pleased to see his recent book about Japanese financial policy cited in <i>The Economist.</i> . . . <b>Hutchison</b> and fellow economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> were also quoted in a flattering <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the popularity of the international economics program.
</p>
<p>

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-22/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
