---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Sociologist **Marcia Millman's** media run with her book about romance and the movies continued with interviews for the _New York Post,_ the _San Francisco Chronicle,_ _VIVA,_ the Sunday magazine of Argentina's largest Spanish-language newspaper, the _Santa Cruz Sentinel,_ and on KUSP Radio.

**Peter Raimondi,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was interviewed by CNN about his evaluation of the environmental impacts of Duke Energy's plan to expand the Moss Landing power plant.

Environmental studies graduate student **Jonathan Scheuer** was featured in a _Honolulu Star-Bulletin_ story about homeowners battling an invasion by wild pigs.   
  
**Peyman Milanfar,** assistant professor of electrical engineering, was interviewed by CNET TV about his work on a "superresolution" technique that turns blurry images into sharp pictures. The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ also ran a story about his research.

Agroecology's **Sean Swezey** was featured on National Public Radio's _Morning Edition_ program about UC Davis's role in California agriculture. Swezey, director of UC's sustainable agriculture program, highlighted the challenges facing the state's ag industry.  
  
The Japan Broadcasting Corporation (NHK) interviewed **David Koo,** professor of astronomy and astrophysics, and **Joel Primack,** professor of physics, for the TV series _Space Millennium._  
  
**Slawek Tulaczyk,** assistant professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story in the _Los Angeles Times_ about changes in the Antarctic ice sheets and global warming.  
  
  
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/05-28/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
