---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/bssf_rosejoanne.200.jpg
    - caption: "Health sciences career adviser Rosejoanne Cirincione talks with a prospective student at Banana Slug Spring Fair 2001. photo: r. r. jones"
---

#### Pancakes and jazz with M.R.C.

"Thank Goodness for Staff" is the theme of a staff breakfast on Wednesday, May 9, from 7:30 to 9:30 a.m. at Stevenson Dining Hall and patio. The Staff Advisory Board invites all staff employees to enjoy a breakfast of pancakes, bacon, sausage, scrambled eggs, tofu scramble, pastries and breads, fruit, and beverages; music will be provided by Euphonic Tonic. Cowell and Stevenson parking lots will be reserved for the event, and there will be extra shuttles running that morning. Enter a drawing to win prizes, including First Night Santa Cruz passes, fresh flower bouquets from the Farm, College Eight Cafe and Cowell Coffee Shop food certificates, wine, University Club Luncheon certificates, OPERS recreation passes, AND one-month parking passes (8 available). Reserve your spot by sending e-mail to [sab-breakfast@cats.ucsc.edu.  
][1]

#### Banana Slug Spring Fair a 'sparkling success'

Prospective students, their parents, alumni, and friends came to campus on April 21 for Banana Slug Spring Fair. The open house featured tours, lectures, reunions, receptions, and informational booths for every imaginable campus activity. It was the largest spring fair ever--drawing approximately 8,000 prospective students and their parents and about 1,000 alumni. Chancellor Greenwood deemed it a "sparkling success" in a thank you [message ][2]to all the students, staff, and faculty who made it possible.

#### Information sessions for assistant professors

Academic Human Resources will hold information sessions for assistant professors on Wednesday, May 23, from 3 to 5 p.m. in 325 McHenry Library, and Thursday, May 24, from 10 a.m. to noon in 325 McHenry Library (you only need to attend one session). These sessions are intended to help assistant professors understand some of the policies and procedures in academic personnel reviews. Contact Nancy Furber, Academic Human Resources, (831) 459-4779 or furber@cats.ucsc.edu to register.

#### UC-affiliated American University of Armenia seeks vice president and dean of faculty

The American University of Armenia (AUA), a UC-affiliated institution providing graduate education programs in the former Soviet republic, is seeking candidates for the position of vice president and dean of faculty. Established in 1991, AUA is an independent, privately endowed American institution. The language of instruction is English. The position is located in Armenia and begins January 1, 2002. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience, and benefits include housing and round-trip travel. Additional information about the position, along with instructions for submitting nominations and applications, is available on the web at: [www.aua.am/aua/faculty/info4.htm][3]

#### Revised editorial style guide available on web

A Guide to Editorial Style at the University of California, Santa Cruz, is posted on the web at the following address:[ http://pio.ucsc.edu/style_guide.html][4]  
The editorial style guide is useful to all campus units preparing printed or online communications. It establishes a consistent editorial style for the campus and answers some frequently asked questions about general editorial usage and style. A list of further reference sources is appended. If you have questions, contact lance@cats.ucsc.edu.

#### Take Back the Night candlelight march

On May 17 staff and faculty are invited to join hundreds of UCSC students to once again Take Back the Night. This powerful event unites those who want to end violence, including abuse, sexual assault, and rape, against women by bringing awareness to this important issue. A rally begins at 6:30 p.m. at the UCSC Student Center. There will be a men's forum during the women's candlelight march through campus; the evening ends with testimonials. For more information, contact Michelle via e-mail at bell_jar@cats or call the Women's Center at (831) 459-2072.

#### Summer day camp offers big fun at the UCSC Farm

The Wildlands and Watering Cans Summer Day Camp at the UCSC Farm offers hands-on gardening and wilderness activities for children ages 7 to 10. Each day will be filled with activities from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. A maximum of 24 campers will be enrolled for each weeklong session. Three sessions will be offered: June 25-29; July 9-13; and July 16-20. The curriculum will be repeated each week.

The camp is designed to foster environmental awareness while encouraging children to cooperate and have fun outside. Campers will create their own garden beds, explore insects and herbs, and make garden-based crafts. Campers will be exposed to organic farming practices such as composting and soil care, and they will help apprentices in the UCSC ecological horticulture program harvest vegetables for the weekly market. In addition, campers will enjoy local wilderness excursions that include tours of the UCSC Arboretum, the Pogonip Open Space Preserve, and Wilder Ranch.

Fees are $135/week for members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm and Garden and $150 for nonmembers. Call (831) 459-3240 for registration information.

#### Student Corps is back

The Career Center is pleased to announce the reintroduction of its Student Corps temporary student staffing service for UCSC's campus community. As of February 1, the pool of 23 students was working for a variety of campus units as clerical, typing, photocopying, filing, answering phones, reception backup, driving, directing traffic, posting flyers, cleaning, and setting up events. For more information (and to download the job request form), visit the [Student Corps web site][5].

#### Women's Center invites young artists to exhibit their work

The Women's Center is having a Children's Art Show May 12-20, featuring the work of the children of UCSC staff, students, and faculty. An opening reception, with refreshments and entertainment, will be held on Sunday, May 13. For more information, contact Helen at (831) 459-2291.

#### Construction update

_Currents_ is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][8]

  

[1]: mailto:sab-breakfast@cats.ucsc.edu.
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/messages/00-01/bssf.04-25.htm
[3]: http://www.aua.am/aua/faculty/info4.htm
[4]:  http://pio.ucsc.edu/style_guide.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/staff/studentcorps.html
[6]: ../../construction.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/04-30/takenote.html "Permalink to takenote")
