---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Chancellor **M.R.C. Greenwood** was quoted in an article in the_ Chronicle of Higher Education _about a Congressional hearing at which she testified. The hearing before the House of Representatives Committee on Science dealt with issues relating to scientific research and national security.

Hindi and Urdu lecturer **John Mock** was quoted in the _Atlanta Journal and Constitution,_ as well as by Cox News Service, about the current political situation in Pakistan.

**Gary Griggs,** director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and **Margaret McManus,** assistant professor of ocean sciences, were featured in a story in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about a major grant to establish a Center for Integrated Marine Technologies at UCSC.

**Francisco Hernandez,** vice chancellor of Student Affairs, was asked by _Education Week on the Web_ for comment on a new report about the future of virtual education for high schools. In addition, _USA Today_ listed the UC-sponsored free online test preparation course, which Hernandez helped launch, in a list of newsworthy web sites.

History of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** was quoted extensively in both the Associated Press State and Local Wire and the _Lexington Herald-Leader_ in regard to how prison systems fail to rehabilitate offenders.

Marine ecologist **Mark Carr** was featured in a story about the science of marine reserves in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._  

An article in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about the theory that microbes from Mars traveled to Earth on a meteorite included quotes from **Frank Drake,** professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics.

The _Herald-Sun_ noted an upcoming lecture appearance by **Tina Campt,** associate professor of women's studies and history, at North Carolina Central University.   

**Lotus Baker,** visitor services supervisor at Lick Observatory, was quoted in a story in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about an award the National Weather Service gave the observatory for 120 years of weather records. Baker is one of the staff who report the daily weather observations.

Asteroid expert **Erik Asphau**g was quoted in an article in the _New York Times_ about scientists' ideas for how best to stop an asteroid heading toward Earth, should one be discovered.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about research on the sexual behavior of banana slugs featuring graduate students **Janet Leonard** and **Brooke Miller** and undergraduate researcher **Kristina Ruble**.  

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-02/news.html "Permalink to news")
