---
layout: post
title: "Academic Resources Center holding Open House on September 26"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/arcenter.02-09-23.160.jpg
    - caption: "The new ARCenter includes offices where students and staff members can meet, as well as areas for study groups and individual studying."
---

Whether a student is struggling with course work, looking for academic counseling, or wanting to do some long-term academic planning, one-stop help is now available.

The Academic Resources Center--known as ARCenter--was established to help students reach their academic goals, and opened with the start of fall classes. It is located in the building known as the Student Center before student organizations moved to Quarry Plaza last year. The center will hold an Open House from 3 to 5 p.m. on Thursday, September 26\.

"It's a chance to get acquainted with the facility," said David Dodson, executive director of Student Academic Support Services, adding that there will be refreshments and music at the event.

"A campus learning center has been envisioned for more than 10 years," said Dodson. "Educational Opportunity Programs (EOP) staff have long sought a facility and a series of programs which would permit UCSC to match the learning support efforts available at UC Berkeley and UCLA."

Dodson said that seemed impossible until the Student Union Assembly asked UCSC to consider a building exchange which would give the student groups access to the former Bay Tree Bookstore and Redwood Buildings on Quarry Plaza.   
Now, services once spread across campus have been consolidated in the new location. During the academic year, the center is open for individual and group student use from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday through Thursday, and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday.

Students may meet with EOP and Services for Transfer and Re-Entry Students (STARS) staff members for academic counseling and academic long-range planning. They can also receive tutoring, in writing and other subjects, and Modified Supplemental Instruction sections, which assist students who seek to excel in some of the most challenging courses offered at UCSC.

The spacious new quarters include offices where students and staff members can meet, as well as areas for study groups and individual students to study. The center has already hosted a workshop for re-entry students who expressed their enthusiasm for the space.

Dodson envisions the center as a place where students will be comfortable spending some time. The ARCafe will begin operation soon, and pizza is now available from 5 to 10 p.m. on Mondays through Thursdays. Getting to and from the center will also be easier, now that the shuttle buses stop there. "Clearly the ARCenter will be a wonderful contribution to student success," said Dodson.  
  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-23/arcenter.html "Permalink to arcenter")
