---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/catlos_brian.140.jpg
    - caption: "Brian Catlos Photo: Nuria Silleras-Fernandez"
  -
    - file: ../art/dent_gina.140.jpg
    - caption: "Gina Dent Photo: Ann M. Gibb"
---

New Faculty

Gina Dent  
Assistant Professor of Women's Studies

Gina Dent's work is focused on applying humanities research to solving social problems. She holds a B.A. in comparative literature from UC Berkeley and an M.A., M.Phil., and a Ph.D. in English and comparative literature from Columbia Univeristy. Before coming to UCSC, Dent was a visiting assistant professor in ethnic studies and African American Studies at UC Berkeley. She has also been a research fellow in the Institute for Humanities Research at UCSC. Dent's book,_ Anchored to the Real: Black Literature in the Wake of Anthropology,_ will be published next year by Duke University Press.

Brian Catlos  
Assistant Professor of History  

Brian Catlos studies the mechanics of social interactions of ethno-religious groups, especially Christians, Muslims, and Jews in Spain during the Middle Ages. He received a B.A. in history and philosophy and an M.A. and a Ph.D. in medieval studies (history) from the University of Toronto. Catlos received the Governor-General of Canada's Gold Medal as the best graduate student in Canada. His book, _The Victors and the Vanquished: Christians and Muslims in Catalonia and Aragon 1050-1300,_ will be published next year by Cambridge University Press.

  
  

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-28/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
