---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1088
images:
---

<p>
  <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies penned an incisive op-ed for the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about the social, economic, and political conditions underpinning the crisis in the Middle East.
</p>
<p>
  KGO TV (Channel 7, San Francisco) recently aired a story about professor of ocean sciences <b>Mary Silver</b> and her research on toxic marine algae.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> interviewed assistant professor of music <b>Karlton Hester</b> about the three-day "Global African Music Festival," which Hester produced.<br>
  <br>
  Assistant professor of philosophy <b>Alva Noe</b>'s research on neuroplasticity and consciousness was the subject of a recent article in <i>wired.com.</i><br>
  <br>
  Sociology's <b>Melanie DuPuis</b> made the local media circuit, discussing her new book about milk on KUSP and KSCO radio and in <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and appearing at Bookshop Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Amelie Hastie,</b> assistant professor of film and digital media, was a guest on KUSP Radio's <i>Talking Pictures</i> program in March and will be on the show again in May.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and <b>Mark Carr,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, were quoted in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a visit to the Monterey Bay Area by the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy. Griggs and Carr both gave talks to the commissioners.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Sharon Daniel,</b> assistant professor of film and digital media, was interviewed by the <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> on the power of temporary memorial shrines.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> gave a nice nod to the <b>UCSC Farm &amp; Garden</b> in a lengthy profile of organic gardening visionary John Jeavons.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Swanger,</b> professor of education and creative writing, was a guest on KSCO's <i>The Saturday Special</i> for a program about education.
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/04-22/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
