---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

A $9.1 million grant from the Moore Foundation to establish a Laboratory for Adaptive Optics at UCSC received print and broadcast media coverage, including stories in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _San Jose Mercury News_ and on KSBW-TV, KGO Radio, and KION Radio. **Joe Miller,** director of UCO/Lick Observatory, handled most of the interviews.

The _Wall Street Journal_ cited the work of economist** Lori Kletzer** in a story about the impact of foreign competition on domestic furniture manufacturing.

Professor of molecular, cell, and developmental biology **Manuel Ares** was featured in several stories about his $1 million grant for undergraduate science education from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Stories appeared in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel, Los Angeles Times,_ and the _Chronicle of Higher Education._

**Susanne Jonas** of Latin American and Latino studies appeared on the Public Radio International program, _The World,_ discussing the Guatemalan peace process and the current state of affairs there.  

**John Thompson,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, **Brent Haddad,** associate professor of environmental studies, and **Lisa Sloan,** associate professor of Earth sciences, were guests on KUSP Radio's_ Talk of the Bay_ program. They discussed the STEPS Institute and its approach to global environmental issues.

Economist **Rob Fairlie**'s expertise on race and public school enrollment was cited in an _Alameda Times-Star_ article about "white flight" out of the state's public schools.

As organizer of a scientific conference on asteroid hazards, associate professor of Earth sciences **Erik Asphaug** was featured in several news stories and was interviewed on National Public Radio's_ All Things Considered._ Coverage included an Associated Press story that ran in the _San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News,_ and other newspapers, a Reuters story that ran on _CNN.com_ and was mentioned on _CNN Headline News,_ a U.P.I. story, and an article in _New Scientist_ magazine. Asphaug also did an interview with a BBC-TV documentary team.

The experiences of history of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** were included in a _Tampa Tribune_ article on court cases involving academic freedom. Davis was fired from UCLA in 1969 because she was a communist. Although she won her case in court, the UC Regents overruled UCLA's chancellor's plans to reappoint Davis to her teaching position.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ tapped psychology's **Anthony Pratkanis** and **Dane Archer** of sociology for their coverage of the anniversary of September 11. Pratkanis was also interviewed by the _Sacramento Bee_ for a story about the cost of political advertising on cable television.  

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year.][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-30/news.html "Permalink to news")
