---
layout: post
title: "Book and exhibition celebrate UCSC art history professor Mary Holmes"
author: Ann Gibb
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/holmes_book.02-10-28.200.jpg
    - caption: "The book includes extensive interviews with Mary Holmes and essays about her artwork."
---

The ideas and artwork of Mary Holmes, a founding member of the UCSC faculty who died earlier this year, are being celebrated in a new book and an exhibition of her art.

_Mary Holmes: Paintings and Ideas _(Very Press, 2002) by Addi Somekh and Charlie Eckert, includes extensive interviews with Holmes, essays about her artwork, and color photographs of her paintings, assemblages, and home in Santa Cruz County. An exhibition of paintings and artifacts by Holmes will be on view at the Porter College Faculty Gallery from November 13 through December 14.   
  
"Mary had an amazing gift for making people aware of the relationship between our physical and our spiritual lives--the joys, pains, and paradoxes of how they come together. Whether through her paintings of faith, hope, and self-discipline, or when she spoke of the way art affects people in their need to lead meaningful lives, she always came back to that point. Anyone who saw her speak walked away with clarity and energy," said Somekh, a 1994 graduate of UCSC who conducted 80 hours of interviews with Holmes for the book.  
  
The wide array of Holmes's artwork, as well as parts of her 100-year-old ranch in rural Santa Cruz County, were photographed by coauthor Eckert. One chapter is devoted to images of the Chapel of the Holy Spirit, which Holmes had built as both a spiritual space and a place for her artwork, "a place that my pictures are at home in" is how she described the chapel to Somekh in an interview.  
  
All the paintings and artifacts in the exhibition of her work, which is also called _Mary Holmes: Paintings and Ideas,_ are on loan from Holmes's private collection.   
  
There is an opening reception on November 13 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., with gallery talks by Holmes's son Michael O'Malley and UCSC professor of theater arts James Bierman at 6 p.m. For more information on the exhibition, see [arts.ucsc.edu/sesnon][1] or call 831/459-3606.  
  
More information on the book is available at [maryholmesbook.com][2].

  

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/sesnon/
[2]: http://www.maryholmesbook.com
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-28/holmes.html "Permalink to holmes")
