---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1277
images:
---

<p>
  Astronomers <b>Steven Vogt</b> and <b>Greg Laughlin</b> are members of a planet-hunting team that recently discovered a planetary system with similarities to our own solar system. Their contributions were mentioned in stories that appeared in the <i>Baltimore Sun, Dallas Morning News, Detroit Free Press, Los Angeles Times, Miami Herald, New York Times, Philadelphia Inquirer, San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News, Washington Times, Edmonton Journal, Montreal Gazette, Glasgow Herald, the Scotsman,</i> and other newspapers. Vogt was interviewed on KGO radio.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> is turning to UCSC for expert commentary, most recently from economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> about a wage-insurance proposal making its way through Congress and from <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies about water politics in Imperial Valley.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Richard Hughey,</b> professor of computer engineering, was quoted in a story in the <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal</i> about a new microprocessor design from a Soquel start-up company, Ascenium.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of computer science <b>David Haussler</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> story about efforts to improve the accuracy of the draft human genome sequence.<br>
  <br>
  Biologist <b>Burney Le Boeuf</b> and campus veterinarian <b>David Casper</b> were quoted in a story in the <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about a recent shark attack at Stinson Beach.<br>
  <br>
  Biologist <b>Jim Estes</b> was quoted in several stories about the annual count of California sea otters, which showed a small decrease for the second year in a row. The stories appeared in the <i>Monterey County Herald, San Francisco Chronicle,</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.<br>
  <br></i>Research on prion proteins by professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>Glenn Millhauser</b> was covered in stories appearing in <i>Pain &amp; Central Nervous System Week, Proteomics Weekly,</i> and <i>Vector &amp; Zoonosis Week.<br></i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year</a>
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-24/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
