---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 957
images:
---

<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran two articles about the dedication of the Center for Ocean Health at Long Marine Lab, featuring quotes from <b>Peter Raimondi,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, and <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences. KION TV also covered the event and interviewed <b>Terrie Williams,</b> Benson Lynn Professor of Ocean Health.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Terrie Williams</b> was also featured in news stories about her research in Antarctica, studying the behavior of Weddell seals as they dive for food beneath the sea ice. News stories about the project, which involved mounting video cameras and other monitoring devices on the seals, ran in the <i>London Times</i> and the <i>Dallas Morning News.</i> The Dallas paper also quoted <b>Burney Le Boeuf,</b> professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology, who was not part of the research team but commented on the importance of its findings.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> spoke with a reporter from <i>Inc.</i> magazine recently about trends in self-employment over the 20th century.
</p>
<p>
  Research on elephant seals by professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Daniel Costa</b> was featured in the <i>Honolulu Star-Bulletin</i> and an Associated Press story about new technologies for tracking the movements of marine life.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Peter Orner</b>, an accomplished fiction writer and lecturer in legal studies, was quoted at length in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> piece about John Steinbeck.
</p>
<p>
  Ecologist <b>Deborah Letourneau</b> was quoted in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> as part of the paper's coverage of a new National Academy of Sciences report about genetically modified crops.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the New Teacher Center was featured in an article in the (London) <i>Times Educational Supplement</i> about the upsurge of interest in teaching as a career in the wake of September 11 and the economic downturn.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Janet Linthicum,</b> a biologist with the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, was quoted in an article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about the increasing numbers of eagles in California.
</p>
<p>
  Vice chancellor of Student Affairs <b>Francisco Hernandez</b> is featured in a roundtable discussion of the virtual high school that appears in the March/April edition of the <i>Technology Source</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Harry Noller,</b> Sinsheimer Professor of Molecular Biology, was interviewed recently by a TV crew working for BBC and PBS on a documentary to commemorate the 50th anniversary next year of the discovery of the DNA double helix by James Watson and Francis Crick.
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/03-04/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
