---
layout: post
title: "New Faculty"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/clear_annette.140.jpg
    - caption: "Photo: Jon Kersey"
---

**Annette Clear**  
Assistant Professor, Politics  
  
Annette Clear specializes in East Asian studies with a focus on Indonesia. Her dissertation, "Democracy and Donors in Indonesia," looks at foreign aid to Indonesia since 1967. Clear examines the ways in which three principal donors--the United States, Japan, and the Netherlands--affected democratization and how they reacted to the political and economic crisis of the late 1990s. Clear earned her doctorate in political science from Columbia University, where she also earned master's degrees in political science and philosophy. She earned her bachelor's degree in East Asian studies from Yale University. Clear has held staff positions with the Asia Foundation in Tokyo, Phnom Penh, and San Francisco and has been an observer in East Timor for the Carter Center for Human Rights, as well as in Indonesia for Indonesian Election Watch. She speaks near-fluent Japanese and advanced Indonesian.

_Clear will be giving a talk titled __"East Timor: Shifting Views from Jakarta"__ on Monday, February 25, from noon to 1:30 in Social Sciences 1, Room 261. Her presentation is part of the Asia/Pacific Rim Brown Bag Lunch Series, sponsored by the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies._

[Return to Front Page][1]  
  

[1]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/02-18/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
