---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rose_tricia.140.jpg
    - caption: "Tricia Rose Photo: Ann M. Gibb"
  -
    - file: ../art/kamehiro_stacey.140.jpg
    - caption: "Stacy Kamehiro Photo: Ann M. Gibb"
---

New Faculty

Stacy Kamehiro  
Assistant Professor of Art History

Stacy Kamehiro's work focuses on the visual cultures of Oceania. Her work is interdisciplinary in nature, drawing on art historical, historical, anthropological, and cultural studies theories and methodologies. Her research centers on the relationship between art production and identity politics (political, social, ethnic, gendered, and national identities), particularly in situations of culture contact and colonization. Kamehiro is currently studying public art and art institutions in late 19th-century Hawai'i. She joins the UCSC faculty after teaching in the Department of Art and Art History at the University of Redlands. She received a B.A. In visual arts (studio art and art history) at UC San Diego and her M.A. and Ph.D. in art history from UC Los Angeles.

Tricia Rose  
Professor of American Studies  

Tricia Rose specializes in 20th-century African American culture and politics, social thought, popular culture, and gender issues. She received her B.A. in Sociology from Yale University and her M.A. and Ph.D. in American civilization from Brown University. Rose is the author of _Black Noise: Rap Music and Black Culture in Contemporary America_ (Wesleyan Press, 1994) which was awarded an American Book Award from the Before Columbus Foundation in 1995. Her essays on race, culture and politics, black popular music and black women's issues have appeared in edited book collections, journals, and magazines. Prior to her appointment to UCSC, Rose taught American studies, history, and Africana studies at New York University.  
  

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-04/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
