---
layout: post
title: "From fossils to forensics: UCSC hosts career conference for girls on March 2"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 912
images:
---

<p>
  Girls in grades 9 to 12 are invited to explore their interests in math, science, and engineering during an exciting career conference at UC Santa Cruz on Saturday, March 2.
</p>
<p>
  "Expanding Your Horizons in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering" is a daylong event featuring 30 workshops for young women designed to highlight career opportunities in fields as diverse as astronomy, marine biology, environmental science, and medicine.
</p>
<p>
  Registration begins at 8 a.m. with events scheduled through 3:30 p.m. A $15 registration fee includes morning refreshments and lunch. Advance registration is required; to register, call (831) 459-2169. For a full schedule of events, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/wmcenter/eyh">web site</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Two workshops for parents and educators will cover UC, Cal State, and community college admission requirements and ways to counter the negative messages that discourage too many girls from going into science fields.
</p>
<p>
  The UCSC event is part of a national effort that began in 1976 to promote greater awareness among girls of career opportunities in math and science by giving them a chance to interact with women working in nontraditional careers. Since then, more than 525,000 girls have attended EYH conferences.
</p>
<p>
  Workshop leaders hail from academia and industry, including UCSC faculty members and graduate students. Highlights include sessions on fossils, forensic anthropology, water monitoring, restoration ecology, careers in biological science, as well as hands-on workshops in electronics, chemistry, medical care, and more.
</p>
<p>
  The conference is sponsored by the UCSC Women's Center with support from the UCSC Educational Partnership Center.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/02-18/horizons.html "Permalink to horizons")
