---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/lokey_scott.140.jpg
    - caption: "Scott Lokey Photo: Tim Stephens"
  -
    - file: ../art/feldheim_david.140.jpg
    - caption: "David Feldheim Photo: Biology Department"
---

New Faculty

R. Scott Lokey  
Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry

Scott Lokey's research centers on the development of chemical tools with which to study complex biological processes. He is particularly interested in cyclic peptides, a diverse and structurally complex class of molecules that includes many biologically active compounds. Lokey's research group uses the methods of combinatorial chemistry to generate "libraries" of cyclic peptides, which they screen for biological activity using high-throughput assays. Lokey works closely with biologists to develop cell-based assays for identifying novel compounds with potent biological activity. He is also interested in understanding the structural features of cyclic peptides that determine their ability to penetrate cell membranes. Lokey received his B.S. degree in chemistry from Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, and his Ph.D. in organic chemistry from the University of Texas, Austin. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was a postdoctoral researcher at the Harvard Institute of Chemistry and Cell Biology.

David Feldheim  
Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology  

David Feldheim studies developmental neuroscience, in particular how neural connections are made during the development of the mammalian brain. He earned a B.A. in biochemistry from UC San Diego and a Ph.D. in biochemistry from UC Berkeley. Before coming to UCSC, he was a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard Medical School.

  
  

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-07/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
