---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

A feature in _Discover_ magazine on the 50 most important women in science included University Professor of astronomy **Sandra Faber,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology **Terrie Williams,** and professor of Earth sciences **Marcia McNutt.** Stories noting the UCSC faculty who were featured in the magazine appeared in the _San Jose Mercury News, Contra Costa Times_, and _Santa Cruz Sentinel._  

An article in the _Contra Costa Times_ about the impact of global warming on California water supplies featured comments from **Brent Haddad**, associate professor of environmental studies, and **Lisa Sloan,** associate professor of Earth sciences.

KSCO Radio covered the **New Teacher Center**'s $7.5 million NSF-funded project to establish an "e-mentoring" system for beginning science teachers. The _San Jose Mercury News_ made note of the center's recent reception in San Jose that honored new teachers, and a crew from KRON-TV interviewed NTC director **Ellen Moir**.   

Research by the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group on ways to prevent golden eagles and other raptors from being electrocuted by power lines was covered in the _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and on KCBS Radio. Researchers **Brian Walton** and **Brian Latta** were featured in the coverage.  

Marine ecologist **Mark Carr** was quoted in an article in the _San Francisco Chronicle_ about newly established marine reserves around the Channel Islands. Carr serves on a scientific advisory panel on the reserves.  

Research on long-term memory in sea lions by marine biologist **Ronald Schusterman** and postdoctoral researcher **Colleen Reichmuth Kastak** received widespread coverage. After stories appeared in _New Scientist_ magazine and on the Reuters wire service, the researchers were contacted for interviews by BBC Radio, CNN, _National Geographic_ TV, and Discovery Channel Canada.  

Cal State Northridge's radio station picked up on a new report about the future of virtual education for high schools that has been endorsed by **Francisco Hernandez,** vice chancellor of Student Affairs. Hernandez also received coverage in the _Boston Globe_ and _Oakland Tribune_ for his role launching a new UC-sponsored free online test-preparation course.

Stories about a project led by assistant professor of astronomy **Greg Laughlin** and NASA astronomer **Tim Castellano,** in which amateur astronomers are being encouraged to conduct observations to help detect planets around other stars, ran in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _Christian Science Monitor._

**Frank Galuszka**, professor of art, authored an opinion piece that ran in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about the "uglification" of Santa Cruz.  

Social psychologist **Tom Pettigrew** was featured on a KSBW-TV segment about hate and conflict.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about the online course taught by **Tara Madhyastha,** assistant professor of computer engineering.  

**Tim Tinker,** a graduate student in biology, was quoted in the _San Luis Obispo Tribune_ in a story about Tinker's research on sea otters.   

An article in the _Monterey Herald_ about the dredging of the Moss Landing Harbor included comments from **Gary Griggs,** professor of Earth sciences and director of the Institute of Marine Sciences.

The _Monterey County Herald_ covered a public forum on Iraq in which **Alan Richards** of environmental studies participated.   

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-04/news.html "Permalink to news")
