---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/xmas_whale.200.jpg
    - caption: "A day of festivities at the Seymour Center December 7 will conclude with a 'whale lighting' ceremony at 6 p.m., when strings of Christmas lights will illuminate Long Marine Lab's 87-foot blue whale skeleton. Photo: Peter Macht"
  -
    - file: ../art/norries_window.200.jpg
    - caption: "Handmade wreaths and ornaments, pottery tea sets, candle holders, and vases are among the many gift items available at Norrie's Gift Shop at the Arboretum. Photo: Louise Donahue"
---

More News

Norrie's at the Arboretum all decked out for holiday open house

Norrie's Gift Shop at the [Arboretum][1] is jam packed with gifts and decorations for the holiday season. Handmade wreaths and ornaments, bamboo cutting boards, candles, and vases are among the many decorative and functional items that will be showcased at the Holiday Open House on Saturday and Sunday, December 7 and 8, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.   

UCSC staff and faculty are invited to a special open house on Monday, December 9, from 4 to 7 p.m. Everything in the shop, including plants and garden statuary, will be 10 percent off for this event.

Norrie's staff will be pouring cider and serving cookies at both events. Free gift wrapping is always available. All proceeds benefit the Arboretum.  

Norrie's Gift Shop is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday from 1-4 p.m. The Arboretum gardens are open seven days a week from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. except Thanksgiving and Christmas.  
_Back to top_   

Firefighters to battle propane gas fires

UCSC's Fire Department will be joined by area fire departments on Monday, December 2, through Saturday, December 7, in propane gas training exercises. The firefighting drills near the UCSC fire station will include propane fires and flammable liquids, and large flames will probably be visible beyond the immediate area at times. The fires will be fought in the afternoons, weather permitting. Precautions have been taken to conform with air quality standards._  
__Back to top_

Jingle Shells Holiday Art and Book Festival at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center  

The Seymour Center at Long Marine Laboratory is celebrating the holidays with its annual Jingle Shells Art and Book Festival on Saturday, December 7, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Do your holiday shopping in a festive atmosphere, with live music, refreshments, children's crafts and storytelling, and free gift wrapping. The festival includes a wide variety of arts and crafts with ocean- and nature-related themes, plus special presentations and book signings by local authors and artists.

Entrance fees to the Seymour Center's exhibits, aquariums, and touch tanks are waived during the entire day. All items in the Ocean Discovery Shop will be on sale at 15 percent off. Arts and crafts available at the festival will include pottery, jewelry, art glass, art prints, photographs, and more. Proceeds from the sale directly support the center's marine science education programs.  

The[ Seymour Center][2] at Long Marine Lab is open for public visiting Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.   
_Back to top_

Arts & Lectures adds singer/songwriters show including Lyle Lovett, John Hiatt

UCSC Arts & Lectures has just added a new show to its 2002-03 season featuring an evening with four extraordinary Texas singer/songwriters: [Lyle Lovett][3], [Guy Clark][4], [Joe Ely][5] and [John Hiatt][6]. The concert will take place on Monday, February 17, at 8 pm at the Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium.   
Tickets go on sale December 8, with priority ticketing available for Arts & Lectures members December 1-7. Prices are $45 for general admission, and $35 for students/seniors with ID. Tickets for this show may only be purchased through the Civic Auditorium Box Office, (831) 420-5260, or Ticketmaster._  
__Back to top_   

Help plan the 2003 Women at Work Retreat

The first Steering Committee meeting for the Women at Work Retreat 2003 is Thursday, December 5, from noon to 1 p.m. in Room D of the Bay Tree Conference Center. There are a variety of ways to get involved: publicity, desktop publishing, web design and maintenance, fundraising, program development, hospitality, eligibility, and much more. For more information, contact Kim Hughes at (831) 459-5887 or [klhughes@ucsc.edu][7].  
_Back to top_   
  
Staff Human Resources is moving off campus

Along with the Office of Sponsored Projects, the University Controller's Office, and the Payroll/Personnel System Office, Staff Human Resources (SHR) will be moving from its current campus location to an off-campus site located at 2901 Mission Street Extension, across the street from the University Business Park.

The entire core Staff HR functions will be moving, including Consulting Services, Benefits, Training & Development, Labor Relations, Employment, Compensation, SHR Technology Support, and SHR Administration. Vocational Rehabilitation, SHR Technical Training, and the Kerr Hall computer labs will remain at their current on-campus locations.

The relocation will take place this week and next. Details of the moving schedule can be found on the [Staff HR web site][8].  
_Back to top_

Wilderness First Aid class offered by Recreation Office

The Wilderness Medicine Institute of the National Outdoor Leadership School is offering a Wilderness First Aid and WFR Recertification class on December 7 and 8. The two-day course is used by many organizations to introduce first aid and long-term patient care to trip leaders, guides, and rescue team members. For full details, go to the course description in the Recreation Department's[ online catalog][9].

The cost of the class is $100/UCSC students; $145/non-UCSC students. For more information or to register, call (831) 459-2806 or stop by the Recreation Office to pay with cash or check.  
_Back to top_

Campus community contributes to Bali relief efforts

In response to the bombing attacks that killed nearly 200 people in Bali and wiped out a huge area of Kuta Beach, the Santa Cruz community gathered for a gala "Bali Crisis Relief" dinner and benefit performance at Louden Nelson Center November 9. Numerous community members who know and love Bali contributed to the success of the event, which included an exhibit of art photographs of Bali, gourmet Indonesian food, a Balinese Bazaar, a slide show of Balinese images, and a performance by the 18-member UCSC Balinese Gamelan Angklung "Swarasanti," directed by music professor Linda Burman-Hall. The benefit was a huge success, raising nearly $11,000.

Those who missed the event and wish to make a tax-deductible contribution  
can still send a check to: Bali Hati Foundation, c/o Max Lloyd, 401 El Caminito,  
Carmel Valley, CA 93924. Bali Hati Foundation is a nonprofit affiliate of the Heritage Foundation. For further information, contact Linda Burman-Hall at [lbh@cats.ucsc.edu][10] or (831) 423-9693.  
_Back to top_   

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][11]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][12] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][13]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][14]  

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/arboretum/
[2]: http://seymourcenter.ucsc.edu.
[3]: http://www.vh1.com/artists/az/lovett_lyle/bio.jhtml
[4]: http://www.vh1.com/artists/az/clark_guy/bio.jhtml
[5]: http://www.joeely.com
[6]: http://www.johnhiatt.com
[7]: mailto:klhughes@ucsc.edu
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/staff_hr/shr_move/
[9]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/firstaid.html#wfa
[10]: maito:lbh@cats.ucsc.edu
[11]: ../../construction.html
[12]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[13]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[14]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-02/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
