---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Linguistics professor **Geoffrey Pullum** spoke on radio programs in Australia and America about his new book _The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language_, which he coauthored with Rodney Huddleston of Queensland University. Pullum was interviewed for the _Lingua Franca_ program on Australia's ABC Radio National; was the guest on a language and grammar call-in show on an ABC affiliate station in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; and was interviewed for the program _Radiogram_ on KUSP Radio in Santa Cruz.

Biologist **Terrie Williams** and her _Exercise Physiology_ class were featured on the front page of the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ when they investigated the physiology of surfing. The class project was also covered by local TV stations KSBW and KION.

Economist **Rob Fairlie** was interviewed by the _San Francisco Chronicle_ for an article on Latinos and the digital divide, providing statistics on computer and Internet use among different Latino groups.

The Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group was in the news for its efforts to prevent bird deaths caused by power lines and its work with a pair of peregrine falcons nesting on the Oracle building in Redwood City. Bird group coordinator **Brian Walton** was interviewed by KSBW-TV and the _Santa Cruz Sentinel,_ a wire service story appeared in the _Los Angeles Times,_ and KGO-TV (San Francisco) was among the media covering the falcon story.

American studies professor **Dana Frank** had an article about globalization and the banana industry in Ecuador in the _Washington Post_ Sunday _Outlook_ section.

The [Environmental News Network][1] ran a story about the Science Illustration Program featuring graduate student **Jennifer Kane.  
  
**Professor of ocean sciences **Mary Silver** was featured in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about toxic algal blooms.

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ column about the growing economic divide in California. Pastor also appeared in a _Los Angeles Times_ article about new census figures that show a drop in household incomes in much of southern California during the 1990s.

[Summary of Making the News columns, Januany-March 2002][2]

[Return to Front Page][3]


[1]: http://www.enn.com
[2]: ../media_highlights.winter02.pdf
[3]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-03/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
