---
layout: post
title: "Fire Department 
        offers CPR and basic first aid classes"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/flabellina.200.jpg
    - caption: "Marine invertebrates will be the topic of a talk by researcher Allison Gong on August 14 at the Seymour Center. Photo courtesy of the Seymour Center"
  -
    - file: ../art/business_women.200.jpg
    - caption: "Members of the BPW at a luncheon celebrating the donation of their archive to UCSC. Back row (l-r), Jan Corriden and Jean Doerr; front row (l-r), Hulda Hoover McLean, Gerrie Dyer, and Marty Larkin. Not pictured: Jeanne Carey Photo: Paul Stubbs"
---

More News

### Incredible Invertebrates star in Seymour Center summer programs

How do sea jellies sting? (And why don't they call them jellyfish?) What do crabs and their kin do that makes them masters of life in the sea? Tube worms and sea stars have some of the oddest table manners--find out why at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center.   

The Seymour Center's visitor programs this summer focus on "Incredible Invertebrates," highlighting the amazing lives of marine animals without backbones. The programs will continue through September 1.   

For a fascinating trip through the world of spineless wonders, visitors can take part in one of the "See More" Labs offered every day at the center. Lab activities include "Jumpin' Jellies," "Awesome Adaptations," and "Crab Lab." A complete schedule and descriptions of activities are available on the [Seymour Center web site][1].   

On Wednesday, August 14, UCSC researcher Allison Gong will describe the features and adaptations of marine invertebrates in a public lecture titled "We Don't Need No Stinkin' Backbones! or Lifestyles of the Cold and Spineless." Her talk begins at 7 p.m. at the Seymour Center. Admission is $5 for the general public, $4 for members. Tickets are available at the Seymour Center or by calling (831) 459-3800.  

The Seymour Center, located Long Marine Laboratory, features aquariums, exhibits, a hands-on seawater table, and an 87-foot blue whale skeleton. Tours of Long Marine Lab are offered daily. The center is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sunday from noon to 5 p.m. It is closed Monday. Admission is $5 for adults, $3 for students and seniors, and free for children ages 5 and under.  
_Back to top_   

Professional women's organization donates archive to library's Special Collections

The Santa Cruz Business and Professional Women's Organization (BPW) has donated its archive to UC Santa Cruz, along with a donation to support the processing and cataloging of the archive, which includes historic ephemera and realia. The BPW archive will be housed in McHenry Library's Special Collections.  

The local chapter of the BPW, an international and national organization promoting equity for all women in the workplace through advocacy, education, and information, was founded in 1928. The chapter's archive preserves an important part of Santa Cruz history and enriches the Santa Cruz historical archive in Special Collections.

Members of the Santa Cruz BPW previously established a Leadership Opportunity Awards scholarship at UCSC as well as a scholarship at Cabrillo College.  
_Back to top_

Regents' treasurer issues statement on Worldcom impact

The treasurer of the UC Regents has issued a very brief statement on the impact of plummeting Worldcom share prices on the UC Regents' portfolios. [See statement][2].  
_Back to top_

Draft on housing access to be posted before fall public forum

The committee looking at access policies for university-owned housing for faculty and staff plans to have a draft recommendation ready two weeks before the next public forum, tentatively scheduled for mid-September. That draft will be posted on the [Campus Welfare Committee web site.][3]

The Campus Welfare Committee is meeting throughout the summer and plans to make a recommendation in early October to John Simpson, campus provost and executive vice chancellor. Simpson had initially directed the committee to make a recommendation on housing by June 15, but the committee requested more time to gather information and receive input from the campus community, said Assistant Chancellor Leslie Sunell, the committee chair. A campus forum on housing was held May 20.  

In August, the Campus Welfare Committee will receive the results of an independent survey of demand for university-sponsored housing among faculty and staff. The committee is now working on a concept paper to be used in further discussion with the campus community in the fall. ([See related Currents stories][4].)  
_Back to top_

The Campus Fire Department is now offering CPR/Basic First Aid classes several times a month (no child CPR). Fire Department staff are now able to offer classes for up to 20 people per class on weekdays, weekends, or evenings. (Previously only two classes per month with a maximum of 10 people per class were offered.) Classes in Spanish will be given when class size reaches a minimum of six people. The objective is to train 2,000 people per year in CPR and first aid.  
  
The course takes approximately seven hours to complete and is on a first-come, first-served registration basis. The cost is $35, payable in advance at the campus Fire Department, by cash, recharge, or check (made payable to the UC Regents). Failure to appear forfeits fee. Cancellation is required 48 hours prior to class for refund or rescheduling. No exceptions.   
  
For more information or to reserve space, call (831) 459-3473.  
_Back to top_

### Women at Work offers group tickets for Shakespeare Santa Cruz performances

Reduced-price tickets for [Shakespeare Santa Cruz][5] are once again being offered to staff and faculty by Women at Work. Tickets, priced at $16 per performance, are available for the following three performances:

* July 26, **_Merry Wives of Windsor,_** 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 2, **_The Sea Gull,_** 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 16, **_Coriolanus,_** 8 p.m., Theater Arts Mainstage

To order tickets, fill out the [request form][6] on the web or call Diana Sue Miller at (831) 459-2882. Orders must be submitted by noon on July 22.  
_Back to top_

### Outdoor Equipment Rental Center open this summer

The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center is open during the summer on Tuesdays and Thursdays through the first week of August. The center has surfboards, boogie boards, wet suits, booties, sleeping bags, tents, backpacks, stoves, lanterns, and other camping equipment. Staff, faculty, and UCSC Summer Session students may rent gear with a valid ID and driver's license. Hours are noon to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center is located at the East Field House in the two-story building next to the pool. For more information, call (831) 459-2800.  
_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][7]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][8] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][9]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][10]

[1]: http://seymourcenter.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/treasurer/updates/
[3]: http://planning.ucsc.edu/pac/cwc.html
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-27/housing.html
[5]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer02/welcome.shtml
[6]: ticket_form.html
[7]: ../../construction.html
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[10]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/07-08/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
