---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/vogt_steven.140.jpg
    - caption: "Steven Vogt Photo: Tim Stephens"
  -
    - file: ../art/solomon_ruth.140.jpg
    - caption: "Ruth Solomon UCSC Photo Services"
---

Awards and Honors

Ruth Solomon garners top dance award

Ruth Solomon, professor emerita of theater arts/dance, has been selected to receive the 2003 Heritage Award--the highest honor given by the National Dance Association. The honor is presented to a nominee who has given meritorious service of national and/or international significance to the dance field. The personal and professional criteria for selection are extensive and include teaching excellence, research/publication, choreography, and performance.  

As a performer, Solomon has appeared on and off Broadway, on television, and in concerts throughout the United States, Canada, and Japan. She was for many years a permanent member and solo dancer with the Jean Erdman Dance Theater. Solomon has created more than 50 works in her unique version of the modern dance idiom, in addition to staging and choreographing such diverse musical/dramatic productions as Euripides'_Hecuba,_ Stravinsky's _L'Histoire du Soldat_, and Brecht's_ Three Penny Opera._   

Solomon was director of the UCSC dance program, which she established in 1970, until her retirement in 1995. Her highly successful teaching technique has been documented in an hour-long video, _Anatomy as a Master Image in Training Dancers_. Her articles on dance performance, administration, and pedagogy have also appeared in many dance science periodicals. One of her most extensive publications is _Preventing Dance Injuries: An Interdisciplinary Perspective._  

Astronomer Steven Vogt receives Carl Sagan Memorial Award  

Professor of astronomy and astrophysics Steven Vogt and his partners on the California and Carnegie Planet Search Team have been chosen by the American Astronautical Society and the Planetary Society to receive the 2002 Carl Sagan Memorial Award.   

Vogt's corecipients are Geoffrey Marcy, who earned his Ph.D. at UCSC with Vogt and is now a professor of astronomy at UC Berkeley; Paul Butler, a staff scientist at the Carnegie Institution of Washington; and Debra Fischer, a research astronomer at UC Berkeley who also earned her Ph.D. at UCSC. Their planet search team has discovered the majority of the approximately 100 new planets that have been detected outside the solar system in recent years.   

The two societies established the Sagan Memorial Award in 1997 to honor the renowned astronomer and cosmologist Carl Sagan. The recipient is invited to give the annual Sagan Memorial Lecture at the annual meeting of the American Astronautical Society. Marcy will deliver the lecture at the meeting, which is being held this week in Sunnyvale.  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-18/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
