---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2400
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  Awards and Honors
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="castillo" id="castillo"></a>Castillo honored for community service and professional achievements
</p>
<p>
  By proclamation, the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors recently honored Pedro Castillo, professor of history and provost of Oakes College, for his "exemplary community service and professional achievement." As noted in the proclamation, Castillo, a resident of Watsonville, has served on the Planning Commission of the City of Watsonville and the city Parks and Recreation Commission.
</p>
<p>
  Castillo's other contributions to the community, listed in the award, include participation in the Community Foundation of Santa Cruz, the California League of United Latino American Citizens, the National Steinbeck Center Board of Directors, and the Pajaro Valley Health Trust Board of Trustees. In addition, he was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the Council of the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1999.<br>
  <a href="#castillo">Back to top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="seiden" id="seiden"></a>SCIPP director Seiden to chair physics panel
</p>
<p>
  Abe Seiden, professor of physics and director of the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics (SCIPP), has been selected to chair a panel that will advise the national program of particle physics research. The panel, called the Particle Physics Project Prioritization Panel (P5), was established in November as a subpanel of the High Energy Physics Advisory Panel (HEPAP).<br>
</p>
<p>
  The P5 group will report to HEPAP, which will in turn make recommendations to the federal agencies that fund physics research--the Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Science Foundation (NSF).<br>
</p>
<p>
  The 15-member P5 panel will evaluate and rank "medium-sized" particle physics projects on a national scale. HEPAP's chair, physicist Fred Gilman of Carnegie Mellon University, said P5 would help set priorities for projects in the $50 million to $600 million cost range.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A letter to Gilman from DOE and NSF officials laid out the agencies' expectations for P5.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Given the significant number of [midsize] proposals for exciting new science now on the table, and the overall constraints on financial and human resources, P5 can perform an important function," the letter said.<br>
  <a href="#castillo">Back to top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="zavella" id="zavella"></a>Zavella and coauthors win outstanding book award
</p>
<p>
  Patricia Zavella, professor of Latin American and Latino studies, will share in the 2002 Gustavus Myers Outstanding Book Award for her contribution to <i>Telling to Live: Latina Feminist Testimonios</i> (Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 2001). The book, authored by the Latina Feminist Group, presents the stories of a diverse intergenerational group of 18 Latina feminists.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Presented by the Boston-based Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Bigotry and Human Rights in North America, the book awards are presented annually to honor the top 10 to 12 books that address issues of discrimination and bigotry. The awards are announced each year on Human Rights Day, which is December 10.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Zavella contributed to <i>Telling to Live,</i> which is a collection of feminist narratives by Latinas in higher education. In stories, poems, memoirs, and reflections, the authors describe their struggles to succeed in academia.<br>
  Each year, recipients of the Gustavus Myers Outstanding Book Award are selected from a list of books nominated by publishers and individuals. Under the supervision of sociologist Loretta J. Williams, director of the Gustavus Myers Center, a national panel of reviewers selects 10 to 12 works they consider the most outstanding.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Founded in 1984, the Gustavus Myers Center was named in honor of Gustavus Myers, author of <i>The History of Bigotry in the United States.</i> The center promotes diversity and encourages publications that endorse living equitably with pluralism.<br>
  <a href="#castillo">Back to top</a>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-09/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
