---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/jasper_myriah.jpg
    - caption: "Diana Myriah Jasper"
  -
    - file: ../art/kent_jim.jpg
    - caption: "Jim Kent UCSC Photo Services"
---

Awards and Honors

Kent honored for bioinformatics accomplishments  

Jim Kent first gained national recognition in 2000 when, as a graduate student in molecular, cell, and developmental biology, he created the GigAssembler program that was used by the Human Genome Project public consortium to put together the first draft sequence of the human genome. Now a research scientist in the [Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering][1], Kent continues to work on the UCSC genome browser, which makes data from the working drafts of the human and mouse genomes accessible in a user-friendly format for researchers.   

Kent also continues to earn accolades for his work. Most recently, he was honored by [Genome Technology][2] magazine as one of the 2002 GT All Stars selected by the magazine's readers. Kent was chosen for the category of "Sequencing Technology/Database Doyen." He is profiled in the October issue.  

Kent has also been selected to receive the 2003 Benjamin Franklin Award by the members of [Bioinformatics.org][3]. This award is presented annually to a bioinformaticist who has embodied the ideals of Benjamin Franklin by promoting freedom and openness in the field. He was selected for the development of the program GigAssembler and for using it to assemble the working draft of the human genome for the public Human Genome Project. The award will be given at the annual meeting of Bioinformatics.org in San Diego in February.  
_Back to top_

Zavella recognized by _Hispanic Business_ magazine

Patricia Zavella, a professor of Latin American and Latino studies and codirector of the Chicano/Latino Research Center at UCSC, has been selected as one of the 100 Most Influential Hispanics in the October 2002 edition of _Hispanic Business_ magazine.   

The list seeks to recognize the "who's who" of Hispanic leaders in government, business, entertainment, and other areas. Zavella's research focuses on U.S.-Mexico immigration issues and feminist theory.   

Selection of the 100 individuals begins with nominations from readers, web site visitors, contributing editors and writers, magazine staff, and the nominees themselves. To qualify, individuals must be U.S. citizens of Hispanic origin. In describing the selection process, the magazine said it "attempts to compile a list that recognizes those who have had recent, national impact."  
_Back to top_

Two honored for their teaching as grad students  

The recipients of the 2002 Milam-McGinty-Kaun Award for Distinguished Teaching were announced by Social Sciences Dean Martin Chemers at the division's recent annual breakfast meeting.  

Maxwell Oteng and Jennifer Stanowski received the award in recognition of their outstanding teaching. Oteng earned his doctorate in economics earlier this year, and Stanowski is a graduate student in sociology. In nominating Stankowski, sociology professor Marcia Millman said she is the best student she has worked with in 30 years.  

Named after David Kaun, the professor of economics who endowed the award, and the first recipients, Garrett Milam and Matt McGinty, the award honors graduate students in the fields of anthropology, economics, education, environmental studies, politics, psychology, and sociology. Each year, one recipient from economics and one student in another field receive $1,000 each.  

Kaun established the award in 2000 with a $50,000 gift to the campus. Milam and McGinty were teaching assistants in Kaun's_ Intermediate Microeconomic Theory_ course.  
_Back to top_

Staff member wins fellowship to integrate technology into community work

Diana Myriah Jasper, who works for Colleges and University Housing Services, was one of 22 community leaders selected by the [Community Technology Foundation of California][4] (CTFC) to participate in the first class of Zero Divide Fellows, or ZFellows. The three-year fellowship, a part of CTFC's Leadership and Advocacy Institute, is designed to build a network of diverse leaders in California who incorporate technology into their community advocacy efforts.  

Jasper currently serves as advisory board member at Grandma Sue's Community Project, an organization which assists families to self-sufficiency.  

During the first year of the ZFellows program, participants will work on building skills and knowledge around community leadership, policy advocacy, and utilization of technology at the grassroots level. In the second year, they will engage in advocacy projects in their communities, and in the third year, they will mentor others involved in community work.  
  
The Community Technology Foundation of California works to meet the needs of underserved communities for full and equal access to basic and advanced information technology and telecommunications services, and for the knowledge carried by these services.   
_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][5]

[1]: http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/centers/cbe/
[2]: http://www.genome-technology.com/
[3]: http://bioinformatics.org
[4]: http://zerodivide.org/
[5]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-21/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
