---
layout: post
title: "Seymour Center lecture series celebrates marine sanctuary's 10th anniversary"
author: Tim Stephens
post_id: 2163
images:
---

<p>
  The annual fall lecture series at the Seymour Center at Long Marine Laboratory marks the 10th anniversary of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary this year with a program called "Voices from the Sea: Three Evenings in Celebration of Monterey Bay and Beyond." Speakers include sanctuary superintendent William Douros and UCSC professor of ocean sciences Mary Silver, recipient of the 2002 Mary Sears Woman Pioneer in Oceanography Award.
</p>
<p>
  The lectures will take place on Thursday evenings--September 19, September 26, and October 3--from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center.
</p>
<p>
  Tickets for each evening's presentations are $5 for the general public and $4 for members of the Friends of Long Marine Lab. For information and tickets, call the Seymour Center at (831) 459-3800.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>PROGRAM SCHEDULE</b>
</p>
<p>
  <b>September 19: Celebrating the Sanctuary</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  Dan Haifley, executive director, O'Neill Sea Odyssey,<br>
  <i>How Politics Formed the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary</i>
</p>
<p>
  William Douros, superintendent, Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary,<br>
  <i>The Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary: 10 Years of Ocean Conservation on the Central Coast</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>September 26: Focusing on Research</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  Lisa Sloan, associate professor of Earth Sciences, UC Santa Cruz,<br>
  <i>California's Future Climate: Regional Scenarios and Impacts<br></i>
</p>
<p>
  Mary Silver, professor of Ocean Sciences, UC Santa Cruz<br>
  <i>A Local Story: The Harmful Algae of Monterey Bay</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>October 3: Teaching and Reaching the World</b>
</p>
<p>
  Richard Murphy, director of Education and Science, Ocean Futures,<br>
  <i>Sharing the Wonder of the Ocean Realm: Coral Reefs as Ambassadors of the Environment</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Mark Shelley, executive producer and Co-founder, Sea Studios Foundation,<br>
  <i>From Doc Ricketts to The Shape of Life: Building on a Tradition</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The lecture series is sponsored by Aptos Animal Hospital; KUSP-FM; O'Neill, Inc.; and the Charles Schwab Corporation Foundation, Soquel/Capitola Branch.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Seymour Center is located at Long Marine Laboratory at the end of Delaware Avenue in Santa Cruz. Situated on the bluffs overlooking Monterey Bay, the Seymour Center is dedicated to educating people about the role scientific research plays in the understanding and conservation of the world's oceans. The center offers the community an inside look at Long Marine Lab, a world-class marine research facility of the University of California, Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Guided tours, educational programs for school children of all ages, and an array of daily specialty programs focus on different aspects of marine science.<br>
  Additional information about the Seymour Center is available on the <a href="http://seymourcenter.ucsc.edu">web</a>.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-09/lectures.html "Permalink to lectures")
