---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Psychology's **Jean Fox Tree** fielded a media call about her research on conversational speech from _abcnews.com_ while on sabbatical in Scotland even as reporters from the _National Post_ in Toronto and KGO Radio in San Jose scrambled to cover the story. Fox Tree's latest findings were picked up by _Nature,_ which triggered the media flurry.

Chancellor **M.R.C. Greenwood**'s speech to the American Association for the Advancement of Science was quoted in a _Chronicle of Higher Education_ article. Professor of computer science **Ira Pohl** was quoted in the same article, about the possibility that some international students will be barred from studying in certain academic fields.

**Lisa Sloan,** associate professor of Earth sciences, was so busy with media interviews she could hardly get any work done for several days after announcing the results of her research on expected changes in California's climate due to global warming. Media coverage included stories in the _San Jose Mercury News_ (which also referred to her findings in an editorial), _Sacramento Bee, Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Daily News, Stockton Record, Modesto Bee, Contra Costa Times,_ _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and the Associated Press and Reuters news wires. Sloan also did interviews with KRON TV, KPIX TV, KION TV, KSBW TV, KCBA TV, KCBS Radio, KGO Radio, and KFBK Radio (Sacramento). Stories also appeared online on _CNN.com_ and _ScienceNOW._

**Jenny Draper,** one of the first graduates of UCSC's bioinformatics major, a Dean's Award recipient, and a participant in the Undergraduate Research Poster Symposium, was interviewed on KSCO Radio about her achievements in science. Draper was also the subject of _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article on her science studies and her work in science illustration.

The grand opening of **Life Lab's** new children's Garden Classroom drew nice coverage from the _San Jose Mercury News,_ KCBA TV, and the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._

**Karen Ottemann,** assistant professor of environmental toxicology, was interviewed on KSCO Radio about her research on ulcer-causing bacteria.

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]


[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-10/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
