---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/bomb_drill.200.jpg
    - caption: "UCSC principal radiation technician Robert Cummins (left) and campus firefighter Troy Souza, in white suit (right), coordinate decontamination. Photo: Buddy Morris"
  -
    - file: ../art/cheers_event.200.jpg
    - caption: "Guest bartenders for the Friends of LML's CHEERS! evening will be (l-r): pinniped specialist and postdoc Brandon Southall, dolphin trainer Jen Gafney, IMS assistant director Steve Davenport, and Friends of Long Marine Lab Board President Kristen Tibbitts. Photo: Gary McDonald"
---

More News

Join the Friends of Long Marine Lab for dinner at the Crow's Nest and support the Seymour Center

Before the holiday feasting and frenzy begin in earnest, join the Friends of Long Marine Laboratory for a evening of good cheer at the Crow's Nest Restaurant. This annual event, called CHEERS!, will take place on Thursday, November 21.  

On the 21st, the Crow's Nest Restaurant will donate 33 percent of its proceeds to the Seymour Marine Discovery Center's education programs. Attendees need to be sure to mention that they are a supporter of the Friends of Long Marine Lab while dining. Dinner will be served any time from 5 to 10 p.m.; a no host bar will be upstairs from 6 to 10 p.m., with guest bartenders from Friends of Long Marine Lab, the Institute of Marine Sciences, and Long Marine Lab.

Reservations are recommended for dinner; call the Crow's Nest at (831) 476-4560. For more information about the event, call Lisa Rose at (831) 459-3694.  
_Back to top_   

Campus emergency personnel participate in countywide 'dirty bomb' drill

Community emergency services personnel and UCSC safety service units participated in a radioactive "dirty bomb" drill on November 14 at New Brighton Elementary School. The drill provided the university with an excellent opportunity to strengthen relations with the community by providing support and technical expertise to local fire and police departments, ambulance agencies, and local hospitals.

The drill was held as part of the fourth annual State of California Emergency Medical Services Authority, Medical and Health Disaster Exercise. Locally, it was a countywide exercise that involved the activation of the County Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and was designed to test the local emergency management resources and strategies that would be used during a real event.

The drill provided the campus with an opportunity to be very helpful because of staff expertise in handling radioactive materials. Ken Smith, the campus radiation safety officer and certified health physicist; Robert Cummins, the principal radiation technician; and Jesse Hendricks, EH&S technician, contributed to the drill by setting up the radiation sources and providing on-scene technical expertise and training as the drill played out. Troy Souza and Ron Esche, firefighters with the Campus Fire Department, are trained members of the Santa Cruz County Hazardous Materials Incident Team and actively participated by making entry into the hot zone and providing on-scene medical monitoring support. Buddy Morris, EH&S director, and Mike Phinn, assistant fire chief, participated in the coordination and evaluation of the drill.  
_Back to top_   

CUE presents classic labor film Nov. 18

The victory of the Great General Motors Sit-Down Strike in Flint, Michigan, in 1937 was the key to the success of the Congress of Industrial Organizations' (CIO) drive for industrial unionism. The now classic _With Babies And Banners_ presents the untold story of the women--the working women, wives, mothers and sisters--who became the backbone of the strike. Forty years later, nine of these women reunite and dramatically show the relevance of their experience for working men and women today.

CUE will screen _With Babies & Banners_ on Monday, November 18, at the Women's Center, with an introduction by Paul Ortiz, assistant professor of community studies and a member of the Santa Cruz Faculty Association. The event will also include a showing of footage from the CUE/AFT strike. Refreshments will be served at 5:30 p.m., and the movie will begin at 6 p.m.

This is the first in CUE's labor film series. For more information, contact CUE Local No.10 at (831) 420-0258 or [organizer@cuesantacruz.org][1].  
_Back to top_   

UC faculty report evaluates 'comprehensive review' admissions process

The University of California's new policy of reviewing all freshman applications in a comprehensive manner has been implemented successfully and has maintained the academic strength of the freshman class, according to a new report by the UC faculty.  

The report by the Academic Senate also identifies several issues associated with the "comprehensive review" admissions process that are worthy of further study by the faculty as details of the process are refined in the coming years.  
  
The policy of comprehensive review was adopted by the UC Board of Regents in November 2001 and implemented for the fall 2002 admissions cycle at the six UC campuses that cannot accommodate all UC-eligible applicants. Under comprehensive review, campus admissions officers use all 14 UC admissions criteria to evaluate applicants, and no UC-eligible applicant is denied admission without a review of the entire application.  

Prior to the fall 2002 admissions cycle, the same 14 admissions criteria were used to admit 25-50 percent of each campus's freshman class; the rest were admitted on the basis of certain academic factors alone. Now, the full 14 criteria are used in evaluating all applications -- an approach intended to facilitate decision making in the highly competitive UC admissions environment, where differences among students' quantitative academic records are often very fine.  
[Full text of press release][2]  
[Full text of the report (pdf)  
][3]_Back to top_ [ ][3]

Campus Hanukkah party Nov. 23

The colleges and Santa Cruz Hillel will host a Hanukkah party on Saturday, November 23, from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Porter College Dining Hall. The event will feature live music by Hu Tza Tza, traditional foods (not Kosher), games, arts and crafts, and gifts. All ages are welcome. (Note: Hanukkah is not a religious observation; it commemorates a historical event.)

For more information, call Santa Cruz Hillel at (831) 426-3332 or Porter Activities Office at (831) 459-2857.   
_Back to top_

Campus community contributes to Bali relief efforts

In response to the bombing attacks that killed nearly 200 people in Bali and wiped out a huge area of Kuta Beach, the Santa Cruz community gathered for a gala "Bali Crisis Relief" dinner and benefit performance at Louden Nelson Center November 9. Numerous community members who know and love Bali contributed to the success of the event, which included an exhibit of art photographs of Bali, gourmet Indonesian food, a Balinese Bazaar, a slide show of Balinese images, and a performance by the 18-member UCSC Balinese Gamelan Angklung "Swarasanti," directed by music professor Linda Burman-Hall. The benefit was a huge success, raising nearly $11,000.

Those who missed the event and wish to make a tax-deductible contribution  
can still send a check to: Bali Hati Foundation, c/o Max Lloyd, 401 El Caminito,  
Carmel Valley, CA 93924. Bali Hati Foundation is a nonprofit affiliate of the Heritage Foundation. For further information, contact Linda Burman-Hall at [lbh@cats.ucsc.edu][4] or (831) 423-9693.  
_Back to top_   

Engineering faculty honored at library event Nov. 18  
  
The Honored Faculty/Honored Books Program will be celebrated with a reception at 2:30 p.m. on November 18 in the Current Periodicals Room at the Science & Engineering Library.  
  
Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and Campus Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor John Simpson will be on hand to congratulate the honored faculty at the event, which is open to the campus community.  
  
The program recognizes the achievements of faculty in engineering and natural sciences who have attained tenure and/or promotion. The occasion is marked by each scholar's selection of a book that has most influenced him or her as a scientist and educator. Sponsoring the program are the UCSC libraries, the Jack Baskin School of Engineering, and the Natural Sciences Division.  
_Back to top_

University of California named lead plaintiff in Dynegy Securities Suit  

The United States District Court Monday (Oct. 28) named the University of California as lead plaintiff in the Dynegy securities fraud class action lawsuit. Judge Sim Lake of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in Houston based his 27-page ruling on a combination of factors, including the amount of losses that UC sustained as a result of its Dynegy investments, the characterization of its claims as "typical" of those of other class members, and its ability to litigate the case on behalf of the shareholders.  

The University of California's Dynegy losses totaled $112.4 million, based on 4.16 million shares purchased between Nov. 1, 2000, and May 7, 2002\. The current value of UC's diversified portfolio, which includes both pension and endowment funds, stands at approximately $51 billion.  
[Full text of press release][5]  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][8]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][9]  

[1]: mailto:organizer@cuesantacruz.org
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2002/nov14art3.htm
[3]: http://www.ucop.edu/regents/regmeet/nov02/302attach.pdf
[4]: maito:lbh@cats.ucsc.edu
[5]: http://www.ucnewswire.org/news_viewer.cfm?story_PK=2158&CFID=262670&CFTOKEN=4479462
[6]: ../../construction.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-18/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
