---
layout: post
title: "Academic Senate to meet October 16"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2284
images:
---

<p>
  <i>The UCSC <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/">Academic Senate</a> will meet at 2:30 p.m. on October 16 at the UCSC Recital Hall. George Blumenthal, Senate chair, sent the following letter to members of the Academic Senate about the issues to be discussed:</i>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues,
</p>
<p>
  Let me welcome you back for the beginning of a new and potentially exciting academic year at UCSC. I will look forward to seeing each of you at the first meeting of the Santa Cruz Division of the Academic Senate, where we will be considering several matters of broad campus concern.
</p>
<p>
  The Senate meeting agenda includes, under unfinished business from the last meeting of the Division, legislation which, if enacted, would fundamentally alter both our system of faculty representation on the Divisional Committee on Committees (CoC) and the manner in which Senators select representatives to the CoC. The CoC is the only elected body within the Santa Cruz Division, and it appoints members to all Senate committees and consults on all faculty appointments to administrative committees.
</p>
<p>
  Also on the agenda are the annual reports of the standing Senate committees. These reports provide a summary of what went on in the Division last year and contain several issues which will continue to be actively pursued during the current year. If you would like to familiarize yourself with ongoing Senate matters and play an effective role in determining future directions for UCSC, you will find these reports extremely useful.
</p>
<p>
  These are very interesting times for this campus. We are now reaching the conclusion of a two-year-long academic planning process. The campus faces the immediate challenge of increasing its enrollment of graduate students to 15 percent of the student population while dealing with burgeoning undergraduate enrollments and while retaining our commitment to outstanding undergraduate instruction. During the year, the Senate, led by the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid, will institute a comprehensive review plan for admissions.
</p>
<p>
  Meanwhile, the systemwide Academic Senate will be determining the new UC admissions requirements in light of our successful efforts last year to change the character of the SAT I exam. All of this is occurring while the state and the University face a budget crisis of unusual intensity. Many of these issues will be discussed by Chancellor Greenwood, Campus Provost Simpson, and me, as well as in oral reports by several Senate committees.
</p>
<p>
  After the meeting, Chancellor Greenwood and I hope that all faculty and their guests will attend the dinner at University House. This will be a fine opportunity to become reacquainted with old friends and to meet our new faculty colleagues. I look forward to seeing you there.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-14/senate.html "Permalink to senate")
