---
layout: post
title: "Parking 
        lot closing to make way for Engineering Building"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/wine_glass.180.gif
    - caption: "Artwork by Lynn Zachreson"
---

More News

### 14th Annual Alumni Vintners Wine Tasting & Silent Auction July 27

Enjoy the fruit of the vine at the 14th Annual Alumni Vintners Wine Tasting & Silent Auction on Saturday, July 27, from 5 to 7:30 p.m. at the Elena Baskin Visual Arts Center.

The event will bring new alumni vintners--Barefoot Cellars, Cordon Creek Selections and Broadley Vineyards-- and returning favorites--Ahlgren, Alexander Valley, Bonny Doon, Chance Creek, D'Elissagaray, Flowers, LaRocca, P&M Staiger, Patz & Hall, Pelican Ranch, Roudon-Smith, Saintsbury, Santa Cruz Mountains, and Zayante.   

Alumni chefs and restaurateurs, including Bruce Aidells Sausage, Jozseph Schultz of India Joze, Pearl Alley Bistro's Mark Curtis, and New Leaf Community Market's Scott Roseman, will offer delicious cuisine for sampling.  

You will have the opportunity to bid on tantalizing auction items including gift certificates for bed & breakfasts, restaurants, and spa packages.

All proceeds go to the Alumni Association Scholarship Fund, which benefits financially deserving UCSC students.   

For more information or to purchase tickets, e-mail [Tom Ellison][1] or call (831) 459-2530. Or you may [RSVP on the web][2]. Tickets are $30/Alumni Association members and guests; $34/general public.  
_Back to top_   

Regents vote to increase out-of-state tuition; resident fees to remain the same

The UC Regents voted July 18 to increase nonresident tuition for the 2002-03 academic year. California resident fees are not expected to rise in the new academic year.   

Undergraduate nonresident tuition will rise 10 percent, from $10,704 to $12,009. Nonresident tuition for graduate students will be limited to a 4 percent increase, from $10,704 to $11,132, effective with the fall term.   
[See full text of press release][3]  
_Back to top_

NSF grants support research on active volcanoes

During the past year, the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded three grants to professor of Earth sciences James Gill for studies of active volcanoes. The most recent is for research at Arenal Volcano, Costa Rica, a site also being studied by professor of Earth sciences Susan Schwartz. After some 500 years of quiescence, Arenal erupted explosively in 1968, killing 78 people, and has been continuously active since then. Gill is investigating the factors underlying complex changes that have occured during the ongoing eruption of Arenal Volcano.

The project involves a collaboration with researchers at the Universities of Illinois, Iowa, and Alaska, including three of Gill's former Ph.D. students. The other two NSF awards are for studies of volcanoes on land and under the sea in Japan, where Gill will spend fall quarter 2002. Gill served as vice chancellor for research from 1994 to 2000.   
_Back to top_

Preparation work for the new UCSC Engineering Building will prompt the closing of Lot 139, the lot behind Baskin Engineering Building. The lot is expected to close on July 25 or 26, and remain closed, with the contractor likely to break ground on the new building in August. New handicapped spaces are being established and will be available for those who require them. There will also be some spaces reserved for university and service vehicles. Others should plan to park in the Core West Parking Structure or Lot 150, which is also known as the North Perimeter Lot. Guests to the campus may use pay station spaces at the parking structure._ [_Construction update story][4]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][5] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][6]_Back to top_   
[ ][6]

Graduate Studies offices have moved

On July 8 the Division of Graduate Studies moved its offices from Social Sciences 2 to the fourth floor of Kerr Hall. The campus mailing address is simply Graduate Division, Kerr Hall.  

Individual office information is as follows (phone extensions remain the same):  
Frank Talamantes, Room 477, ext. 9-4107  
Donna Hunter, Room 470, ext. 9-4105  
Sandra Pacheco, Room 473A, ext. 9-4109  
Bob Hastings, Room 467, ext. 9-2335  
Shizue Shikuma, Room 467, ext. 9-4928  
Dennis Rodriguez, Room 467, ext. 9-4108  
Lynda Denevan, Lobby, ext. 9-2510  
Steve Santiago, Room 403, ext. 9-3438  
Graduate Admissions, Room 499  
-Diana Dean, ext. 9-3513  
-Bunny Perez, ext. 9-4975  
-Kristin West, ext. 9-5905_  
__Back to top_

### Outdoor Equipment Rental Center open this summer

The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center has surfboards, boogie boards, wet suits, booties, sleeping bags, tents, backpacks, stoves, lanterns, and other camping equipment. Staff, faculty, and UCSC Summer Session students may rent gear with a valid ID and driver's license. The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center is located at the East Field House in the two-story building next to the pool. For more information, call (831) 459-2800.  
_Back to top_

Draft on housing policies to be posted before fall public forum

The committee looking at policies for university-owned housing for faculty and staff plans to have a draft recommendation ready two weeks before the next public forum, tentatively scheduled for mid-September. That draft will be posted on the [Campus Welfare Committee web site.][7]

The Campus Welfare Committee is meeting throughout the summer and plans to make a recommendation in early October to John Simpson, campus provost and executive vice chancellor. Simpson had initially directed the committee to make a recommendation on housing by June 15, but the committee requested more time to gather information and receive input from the campus community, said Assistant Chancellor Leslie Sunell, the committee chair. A campus forum on housing was held May 20. Several suggestions for determining who should receive priority for housing were discussed.  

In August, the Campus Welfare Committee will receive the results of an independent survey of demand for university-sponsored housing among faculty and staff. The committee is now working on a concept paper to be used in further discussion with the campus community in the fall. ([See related Currents stories][8].)_  
__Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][9]

[1]: mailto:alumni@cats.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://alumni.ucsc.edu/events/wine/wt_2002.htm
[3]: http://www.ucnewswire.org/news_viewer.cfm?story_PK=1788&CFID=84148&CFTOKEN=14189960
[4]: ../../construction.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[7]: http://planning.ucsc.edu/pac/cwc.html
[8]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-27/housing.html
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/07-22/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
