---
layout: post
title: "Remembrance to mark 
        September 11 anniversary "
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/seal.02-09-02.160.gif
    - caption: 
  -
    - file: ../art/vigil.02-09-02.224.jpg
    - caption: "Students at UCSC gathered at the Upper Quarry Amphitheater in September of 2001 after the terrorist attacks. Photos: UCSC Photo Services"
  -
    - file: ../art/grassfire.02-08-19.224.jpg
    - caption: "Firefighters put out a fire on August 9 that quickly blackened a hillside near the UCSC Farm's Life Lab. Photo: Louise Donahue"
---

More News

On the one-year anniversary of the attacks that killed thousands in New York, Washington D.C., and Pennsylvania, the campus community will be invited to come together for a noon-hour ceremony.

The event is scheduled to begin at noon on Wednesday, September 11, in the Upper Quarry Amphitheater.

Details will be provided as soon as they are available in Currents. Next week's Currents will also include commentary on the impact of the events of September 11.

### Residence hall move-ins begin Thursday, September 12

Residence hall move-ins will begin the morning of Thursday, September 12, as students begin settling into Crown College, College 10 and Merrill College. Move-ins throughout campus will continue on Friday and Saturday, concluding on Sunday, September 15. Classes begin on Wednesday, September 18\.

### House Hunters Hostel available

Students who have been admitted to UCSC and are looking for a place to live may take advantage of the University Town Center House Hunters Hostel in downtown Santa Cruz.

Costing $20 per night, double occupancy, the units include a refrigerator, microwave and range, but no oven. Students should bring a sleeping bag, pillow and towel. Check-in is between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. in Room 405. Those arriving in the evening should make prior arrangements via [e-mail][1] or by calling (831) 429-7100 during office hours.

Reservations are encouraged, and photo identification is required at check-in. There is a five-night maximum stay. The hostel is available through September 4.

_Back to top_

### UC settles with Arthur Andersen's international firms in Enron lawsuit

On behalf of Enron Corp. investors, the University of California has tentatively reached, subject to the approval of certain of the principals and the court, a $40 million settlement with Arthur Andersen's international umbrella organization in the Enron securities and pension class action suits.  

Andersen Worldwide, SC and its non-U.S. member firms will be released from liability and dismissed from the suit; the U.S. firm (Arthur Andersen LLP) and its members will not be released and will remain in the suit.  

"This substantial settlement is a favorable result for the class in light of the limited role of the non-U.S. Andersen entities, and represents one of the more substantial securities recoveries from an accounting firm," said James E. Holst, University of California general counsel. "We regard this settlement as only a first step in obtaining recovery for the class, and will continue to pursue damages from the remaining defendants, most of whom had far deeper involvement in the Enron debacle than the overseas Andersen firms."  
  
The settlement is subject to court approval. The settlement funds will eventually be divided among class members on the basis of an allocation formula that estimates their pro-rata share of total class damages. The division of the Andersen payment between the securities and pension classes will also be determined later. [See full story.][2]

### UCSC firefighters get help battling grass fire

Quick thinking by passersby kept a grass fire from getting out of hand along a campus bikepath on campus Friday, August 9.  

A bicyclist riding on the bikepath near the Farm's Life Lab reported a small grass fire Friday afternoon, and stopped at a nearby building to alert the UCSC Fire Department.  

In the meantime, the Farm's garden manager, Christof Bernau, also spotted the fire, and he and other staffers grabbed garden hoses and rushed to the scene, slowing the fire considerably.  

The heat wave had prompted Bernau, who usually doesn't leave work during lunch, to take a swim in the ocean during his lunch break. He discovered the fire as he was walking back to work.   

"We're very fortunate the people from the Farm were here," said fire captain Don Brookes. Brookes said the fire grew to about 70 yards by 10 yards in about five minutes. Firefighters quickly extinguished the blaze. Its cause was not determined.  

Fire chief Charles Hernandez said the fire served as a reminder for people to heed the "fire danger" signs posted on campus.

_Back to top_

Fire Slug t-shirts on sale at fire station

Sammy Slug has a new t-shirt, and it's available at the UCSC fire station. The navy blue Fire Slug t-shirts sport a logo created by fire captain Paul Babb, and are being sold to raise money for the UC Fire Fighters Association.

The 100-percent cotton shirts are available in small, medium, large, extra-large, and extra-extra-large. The XXL shirts sell for $18; the rest cost $17. Checks should be made payable to the "UC Fire Fighters Association."

Shirts are available from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., except during the lunch hour, Monday through Friday. Call (831) 459-2339 to arrange sales at other times.  
  
_Back to top_

### Parking lot closes to make way for Engineering Building

Preparation work for the new UCSC Engineering Building has prompted the closing of Lot 139, the lot behind Baskin Engineering Building. The lot is expected to remain closed, with the contractor likely to break ground on the new building this month. New handicapped spaces are available for those who require them. There are also some spaces reserved for university and service vehicles. Others should park in the Core West Parking Structure or Lot 150, which is also known as the North Perimeter Lot. Guests to the campus may use pay station spaces at the parking structure._ [_Construction update story][3]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][4] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][5]

_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][6]

[1]: mailto:lainee@garlic.com
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2002/aug27art1.htm
[3]: ../../construction.html
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[6]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-02/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
