---
layout: post
title: "Series focuses on Middle East dialogue"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2336
images:
---

<p>
  Creating and maintaining peaceful dialogue on the complex issues of the Middle East is the goal of a series of events on campus during the week of November 4-8.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "UCSC Israeli-Palestinian Dialogue: Perspectives on the Conflict," includes events each night at 7 p.m. at the Colleges Nine and Ten Dining Hall. The programs are part of "Hate Bias Awareness Week, Deconstructing the Cycle of Prejudice," which includes workshops, discussions, and a film screening.
</p>
<p>
  A complete schedule of the awareness week's events is available <a href="http://www.geocities.com/samplepage1/hbflyer.htm">online.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  For the Israeli-Palestinian series, speakers and panel discussions will offer viewpoints of those involved in the conflict, including Palestinians (Muslims and Christians) and Israelis/Jews, as well as perspectives from other religions and cultures of the region and the world community.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The events will be facilitated by UCSC faculty members Dana Takagi, associate professor of sociology, John Brown Childs, a professor of sociology; and David Anthony, associate professor of history.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Speakers are scheduled to address the forces within their cultures that promote peace and dialogue and those forces within their traditions that promote conflict and violence. A main focus of the series will be on conflict resolution, active listening, and promoting an understanding of the many sides of this conflict.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Each night's program will have a different emphasis.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Monday:</b> "Origins and Current Views of the Conflict," with Khalil Barhoum and David Meir-Levi, moderated by Dana Takagi.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Tuesday:</b> "Palestinian Perspectives: Muslim, Christian, Secular," with Hatem Bazian, Father Labib Kobti, and an additional speaker to be announced later, moderated by John Brown Childs.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Wednesday:</b> "Israeli Perspectives with Semha Alwaya, Amichai Magen, David Pine, and Raphael Danziger," moderated by John Brown Childs<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Thursday:</b> "Possible Solutions &amp; Interfaith Perspectives with Khalil Barhoum, Yitzhak Santis, and an interfaith panel, moderated by David Anthony.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Friday:</b> Middle East hospitality gathering. The emphasis will be on the cultures of the Middle East, and feature cuisine, music, and dance.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Cosponsoring the series are the UCSC University Religious Council (including the Muslim Student Association and Santa Cruz Hillel); the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies; College Nine and College Ten; Jewish Studies Program; Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community; Resource Center for Nonviolence; Ad Hoc Committee on Current Events; The Hate/Bias Peer Response Team; and the Committee for the Advancement of Religious Studies.<br>
</p>
<p>
  More information is available by <a href="mailto:global@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> or by calling (831) 459-2833 or (831) 426-3332.<br>
  <br>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-04/week.html "Permalink to week")
