---
layout: post
title: "Proposed education bond includes nearly $40 million for UCSC"
author: Louise Donahue
post_id: 2294
images:
---

<p>
  A proposed $13.05 billion education bond facing voters this November includes money for several major UCSC projects. If passed, the Kindergarten-University Public Education Facilities Bond Act would provide nearly $40 million over two years, with almost $1.5 million the first year.
</p>
<p>
  The bond is listed as Proposition 47 on the November 5 ballot.
</p>
<p>
  "This bond measure is extremely important to all segments of education--and it is crucial for UC Santa Cruz. I urge everyone to be informed and to vote," said Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood.
</p>
<p>
  In the first year, the bond would provide almost $1.5 million for planning the long-sought UCSC Humanities and Social Sciences Facility, and $517,000 to plan the Emergency Response Center.
</p>
<p>
  In the second year, the bond would provide:<br>
  <br>
  * $25,826,000 for working drawings and construction of the Humanities and Social Sciences Facility.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * $6,592,000 for working drawings and construction of the Emergency Response Center.<br>
  <br>
  * $396,000 for working drawings and construction for alterations for Engineering, Phase 2.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * $3 million for working drawings and construction of seismic corrections, Phase 2A.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * $1,906,000 for McHenry Library Addition planning, Phase 1, as well as $682,000, for seismic and ADA improvement planning; $519,000 for fire and life safety omprovements/Library renovations planning; and $495,000 for renovation/Library<br>
  addition completion planning.
</p>
<p>
  Overall, the bond would provide public higher education--the University of California, California State University, and the state's community colleges--with $1.65 billion. UC's portion would be $408.2 million, CSU would get $496 million, and the community colleges, $746 million.
</p>
<p>
  UC would use Proposition 47 funds for capital improvements in three areas:
</p>
<p>
  * <b>Earthquake safety and life safety.</b> The bond would help UC make seismic repairs in classroom, laboratory, and office buildings.
</p>
<p>
  * <b>More space for enrollment growth.</b> An increase of 64,000 additional students is expected by 2010, creating a need for major new facilities and programs.
</p>
<p>
  * <b>Modernization.</b> Outdated infrastructure and aging classroom and laboratory buildings would be targeted for modernization.
</p>
<p>
  Kindergarten through high school education would receive $11.4 billion, with $3.3 billion going to repair and upgrade schools and about $8.10 billion directed to new construction to relieve overcrowding and provide added space for new students.
</p>
<p>
  In Santa Cruz County, the bond would provide a total of $64.9 million for education when K-12 and higher education are combined.
</p>
<p>
  Proposition 47's supporters include the UC Board of Regents, California State PTA, California Teachers Association, California Taxpayers Association, California Chamber of Commerce, and the League of Women Voters.
</p>
<p>
  An opposition campaign has not been organized, but state Senator William J. "Pete" Knight; Jon Coupal, president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association; and Lewis K. Uhler, president of the National Tax Limitation Committee, signed the ballot argument opposing Proposition 47 in the Official Voter Information Guide.
</p>
<p>
  Arguments in favor and against the bond are available <a href="http://voterguide.ss.ca.gov/propositions2.asp?id=225&amp;sID=3">online</a> and in the voter guide. Information is also available at the University of California Office of the President <a href="http://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/news/prop47.html">web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  Another bond issue, providing an additional $2.3 billion for higher education--including $690 million for UC and $39.4 million for UCSC--is tentatively scheduled to go before voters in 2004, if this measure passes.
</p>
<p>
  Voter registration ends today, October 21. Voter registration forms are available at numerous locations on campus, including McHenry Library, the Colleges, Carriage House, Bay Tree Bookstore, Student Health Center, or by stopping by your local library, post office, or other government office.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-21/bond.html "Permalink to bond")
