---
layout: post
title: "Elliot Aronson ranked among top 100 psychologists of 20th century"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/aronson_e.02-09-02.180.jpg
    - caption: "Elliot Aronson, UCSC professor emeritus of psychology. Photo: Don Harris, UCSC Photo Services"
---

Elliot Aronson, professor emeritus of psychology at UCSC, was named one of the most eminent psychologists of the 20th century in a new study published in the _Review of General Psychology._

Aronson joins names like B. F. Skinner, who topped the list, Sigmund Freud, Jean Piaget, and Albert Bandura.   

With typical self-deprecating humor, Aronson commented, "I only got ranked 78th, but then again, I am among the 22 who are still alive--so I'm grateful for that!"  

One of the most distinguished social psychologists of our time, Aronson made major contributions to the field of human behavior, exploring the theory of cognitive dissonance and the causes of interpersonal attraction. His research always addressed important social problems, including prejudice reduction, energy conservation, and AIDS prevention.

The study, reported in the July/August issue, Vol. 6, No. 2, ranked 99 of the 100 most eminent psychologists of the 20th century, based on the frequency of three variables: journal citation, introductory psychology textbook citation, and survey response.

Surveys were sent to 1,725 members of the American Psychological Society, asking them to list the top psychologists of the century. In their ranking, researchers also took into account whether the psychologists were members of the National Academy of Sciences, had been elected president of the American Psychological Association (APA) or received the APA Distinguished Scientific Contributions Award, and whether their surname was used as an eponym.

Cathaleene Macias, a mental health researcher at McLean Hospital at Harvard University and a former student of Aronson's, credits Aronson with moving psychology "into a new dimension that blends the best of analytical thinking and research rigor with the practical thinking of everyday life."  

Aronson applied theory to real-world problems and presented his work in language that was accessible to the public. He challenged psychologists and other social scientists to adopt research designs that allowed theory to be adapted to the specifics of everyday life, she said.  

"He taught the rest of us that there is nothing so practical as a theory that's been honed by research and examined by the heart," said Macias.  

Aronson joined the UCSC faculty in 1974. He began teaching at Harvard University in 1959 and moved in 1962 to the University of Minnesota. He joined the University of Texas in 1965. His textbook, _The Social Animal,_ remains among the most popular texts in social psychology. Since retiring from UCSC in 1994, Aronson has been affiliated with Stanford University.  

The complete list of the top psychologists of the 20th century is reprinted below. Continuing a tradition begun by researcher Eugene Garfield, who compiled a Top 100 list in 1977 and left the No. 100 spot open, researchers deliberately left No. 100 unnamed to leave room for an accomplished individual.

1\. B. F. Skinner  
2\. Jean Piaget  
3\. Sigmund Freud  
4\. Albert Bandura  
5\. Leon Festinger  
6\. Carl R. Rogers  
7\. Stanley Schachter  
8\. Neal E. Miller  
9\. Edward Thorndike  
10\. A. H. Maslow  
11\. Gordon W. Allport  
12\. Erik H. Erikson  
13\. Hans J. Eysenck  
14\. William James  
15\. David C. McClelland  
16\. Raymond B. Cattell  
17\. John B. Watson  
18\. Kurt Lewin  
19\. Donald O. Hebb  
20\. George A. Miller  
21\. Clark L. Hull  
22\. Jerome Kagan  
23\. Carl G. Jung  
24\. Ivan P. Pavlov  
25\. Walter Mischel  
26\. Harry F. Harlow  
27\. J. P. Guilford  
28\. Jerome S. Bruner  
29\. Ernest R. Hilgard  
30\. Lawrence Kohlberg  
31\. Martin E. P. Seligman  
32\. Ulric Neisser  
33\. Donald T. Campbell  
34\. Roger Brown  
35\. R. B. Zajonc  
36\. Endel Tulving  
37\. Herbert A. Simon  
38\. Noam Chomsky  
39\. Edward E. Jones  
40\. Charles E. Osgood  
41\. Solomon E. Asch  
42\. Gordon H. Bower  
43\. Harold H. Kelley  
44\. Roger W. Sperry  
45\. Edward C. Tolman  
46\. Stanley Milgram  
47\. Arthur R. Jensen  
48\. Lee J. Cronbach  
49\. John Bowlby  
50\. Wolfgang Kohler  
51\. David Wechsler  
52\. S. S. Stevens  
53\. Joseph Wolpe  
54\. D. E. Broadbent  
55\. Roger N. Shepard  
56\. Michael I. Posner  
57\. Theodore M. Newcomb  
58\. Elizabeth F. Loftus  
59\. Paul Ekman  
60\. Robert J. Sternberg  
61\. Karl S. Lashley  
62\. Kenneth Spence  
63\. Morton Deutsch  
64\. Julian B. Rotter  
65\. Konrad Lorenz  
66\. Benton Underwood  
67\. Alfred Adler  
68\. Michael Rutter  
69\. Alexander R. Luria  
70\. Eleanor E. Maccoby  
71\. Robert Plomin  
72.5.* G. Stanley Hall  
72.5. Lewis M. Terman  
74.5.* Eleanor J. Gibson  
74.5. Paul E. Meehl  
76\. Leonard Berkowitz  
77\. William K. Estes  
78\. Elliot Aronson  
79\. Irving L. Janis  
80\. Richard S. Lazarus  
81\. W. Gary Cannon  
82\. Allen L. Edwards  
83\. Lev Semenovich Vygotsky  
84\. Robert Rosenthal  
85\. Milton Rokeach  
88.5.* John Garcia  
88.5. James J. Gibson  
88.5. David Rumelhart  
88.5. L. L. Thurston  
88.5. Margaret Washburn  
88.5. Robert Woodworth  
93.5.* Edwin G. Boring  
93.5. John Dewey  
93.5. Amos Tversky  
93.5. Wilhelm Wundt  
96\. Herman A. Witkin  
97\. Mary D. Ainsworth  
98\. Orval Hobart Mowrer  
99\. Anna Freud  

* Numbers with .5 indicate a tie in the ranking. In these cases, the mean is listed.  

  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-02/aronson.html "Permalink to aronson")
