---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 824
images:
---

<p>
  New findings on the migrations of white sharks by biologist <b>Burney Le Boeuf,</b> graduate student <b>Scott Davis,</b> and others received widespread media coverage, including stories in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Jose Mercury News, San Francisco Chronicle, Los Angeles Times,</i> <i>Orange County Register,</i> the <i>Daily Telegraph</i> in London, and the <i>Scotsman.</i> Television coverage included stations KCBA, KION, and Tech TV.
</p>
<p>
  Alan Chadwick Garden manager <b>Orin Martin</b> made the cover of the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel's</i> garden section in a Q&amp;A column about fruit trees.
</p>
<p>
  Arboretum director <b>Dan Harder</b> was featured in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about his upcoming talk to the Monterey Bay chapter of the American Rhododendron Society.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of molecular, cell, and developmental biology <b>Bill Sullivan,</b> whose research on the cell cycle uses high-tech movies of living cells, was featured in online news stories at <i>Discovery.com</i> and <i>BioMedNet.com.</i> Sullivan was also interviewed recently for a BBC TV documentary, along with <b>Harry Noller,</b> Sinsheimer Professor of Molecular Biology.<br>
  <br>
  Research on manta rays by <b>Don Croll,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in the December issue of <i>National Geographic</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in <i>La Opinion,</i> California's largest and oldest Spanish language newspaper, after serving as an official observer during the Oaxaca Binational Indigenous Front's recent Tijuana assembly, where they elected new leadership.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Manuel Pastor</b> continues to field media queries about the economic crisis in Argentina, most recently from the <i>New York Times,</i> the <i>Sun-Sentinel</i> in Florida, and the <i>Los Angeles Times.</i><br>
  <br>
  Several UCSC researchers were mentioned in stories in a recent issue of <i>New Scientist</i> magazine: astronomers <b>Greg Laughlin</b> and <b>Don Korycansky</b> in a story about planetary orbits, and physics professor <b>Joel Primack</b> in a story about dark matter and dark energy in the universe.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of physics <b>Thomas Banks</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>New York Times</i> about the ultimate fate of the universe.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Carter Wilson</b> of community studies was featured in a <i>Sentinel</i> story about Latino music that included the names of the five Spanish-language recordings that he could not live without.<br>
  <br>
  An article in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about Silicon Valley pioneer Bill Shockley quotes adjunct professor of physics <b>Michael Riordan,</b> who coauthored the book <i>Crystal Fire</i> about the invention of the transistor.<br>
  <br>
  An article about genomics in <i>The Scientist</i> magazine featured biology graduate student <b>Jim Kent</b> and professor of computer science <b>David Haussler.</b>
</p>
<p>

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/01-14/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
