---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2173
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Jean Fox Tree</b> has seen her work on conversational speech featured in the <i>Toronto Star</i> and the <i>Daily Mirror</i> of London, and it's slated to appear in the November issue of <i>Discover</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, was interviewed by BBC Radio about her research on climate change.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Futurist</i> magazine ran a story about research by <b>Donald Potts,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, and graduate student <b>Daria Siciliano,</b> who are using remote sensing techniques to monitor environmental changes.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies appeared in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the narrowing economic gap between Asians and whites and the persistent--and growing--gaps between blacks and Latinos and white workers. Pastor was also quoted in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about the impacts of the recession on African American and Latino employment. . . . Speaking of employment, <b>Paul Ortiz</b> of community studies was quoted in a <i>Kiplinger's</i> online magazine piece about the impact of new immigrants on labor markets and unionization.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Angela Davis,</b> professor of history of consciousness, was quoted in the <i>Progressive</i> on the belated recognition of the influence of women musicians in jazz.
</p>
<p>
  Asteroid expert <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> an assistant professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in articles in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine and several newspapers, including British papers the <i>Independent</i> and the <i>Scotsman.</i> Asphaug argued against the suggestion by another scientist that giant airbags should be used to fend off an asteroid on a collision course with the Earth.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was quoted in an <i>Oakland Tribune</i> story about private school attendance rates. Fairlie's research on white flight from public to private schools also got the attention of KPIX-TV in San Francisco.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Dane Archer</b> was tapped by the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> for comment on the trend among minorities to undergo cosmetic surgery to look more Anglo. Archer called the trend the "worst form of ethnic imperialism" because it eliminates "ethnic markers."
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney,</b> an expert on the psychology of violent criminals, was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the suspect in an Oregon multiple-murder case whose father was convicted years ago of a similar crime. Haney's expertise was also cited in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about the penalty phase of the trial of the man convicted of kidnapping and murdering Danielle van Dam.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> appeared in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about the gender gap among college students.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> appeared on the <i>CBS Evening News</i> in a segment about the uttering of the now-famous phrase "Let's roll," a topic he also discussed with the Associated Press. Pratkanis also was quoted in the <i>Atlanta Journal and Constitution</i> and the <i>Austin American Statesman</i> on the effectiveness of Bush's new backdrops to underscore the theme messages of his speeches.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez</b> was interviewed for an article in the Archaeological Conservancy's magazine, <i>American Archaeology,</i> on her part in team research at the early colonial pueblo of Paa-ko, New Mexico.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Monterey Herald</i> about the UC MBEST Center featured center director <b>Lora Lee Martin.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-09/news.html "Permalink to news")
