---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

### University Club lunch coming up April 18

Join campus faculty and staff for a spring Italian luncheon at University House on April 18, with sittings at 11:30 a.m. and 12:45 p.m. The lunch is part of an ongoing University Club series of themed lunches aimed at bringing together friends and colleagues from around campus. The menu includes salad of spring greens and baby beets, marinated vegetable salad, and seafood lasagna or mushroom and grilled eggplant pomodoro, focaccia, and zucchini saute. Dessert of biscotti and lemon bars and coffee and iced tea are also included. The cost is $11 per person, cash, check, or recharge. Reservations are required; call (831) 459-5271 by 5 p.m. April 16.  
_Back to top_

### UCSC alum pledges major gift to library

A UCSC alum has pledged a major gift to the library--but even he doesn't yet know just how big that gift might be.

Michael Graydon (Cowell '70), an investor in New York City, has pledged $30,000 and invested two-thirds of the gift. If the market goes up over the next eight months, the library reaps a bonus. Graydon's pledge also stipulates his total donation will be no less than the original $30,000 gift.

The new endowment will benefit the reference collection at McHenry Library. "The reference desk is a terrific place that provides vital services," said Graydon. Reference collections are a library's essential core, critical for public service, and the usual first stop of library patrons with a research question.

"The Graydon gift recognizes the distinctive quality of reference collections as a gateway to the world of scholarly knowledge," said Frank Gravier, head reference librarian at McHenry Library. Keeping that gateway open and up-to-date is costly. Dictionaries and reference encyclopedia sets may cost up to several thousand dollars. In the future, these purchases can be supported by Graydon's gift.

The endowment will be known as the Angie, Sally, and Melanie Graydon Reference Library Collection in honor of Graydon's mother, wife, and daughter. "These are people to whom I owe a great deal and who have a major impact on my life," said Graydon. "I've been fortunate. And I find no joy in good fortune unless it is shared."  
_Back to top_

### April Academic Senate meeting canceled

The Academic Senate meeting scheduled for April 17 has been canceled due to lack of urgent business. The next meeting of the senate will be at 3 p.m., May 17, in a location to be announced later. The senate's [meeting schedule][1] is posted online.  
_Back to top_

### C**hild Care Services offers summer program for school-age children**

Child Care Services is now taking applications for its summer program for school-age children, which begins June 17. The children of students, staff, and faculty are eligible to attend. The program, located in Family Student Housing, is licensed and staffed by experienced credentialed teachers, and it offers nutritious meals and snacks; field trips on and off campus, including to the pool and the beach; multicultural activities; sports and art camps; visiting artists in music, dance, and drama; and more. For more information or an application, contact childcareservices@cats.ucsc.edu or (831) 459-2967.  
_Back to top_

### Free self-defense classes available to the campus community

April is National Rape Awareness Month, and the campus [Rape Prevention Education][2] program would like to make the campus community aware of the free self-defense classes being offered on and off campus in the next few weeks.

* **On campus:** Mondays, 2:45 to 4:45 p.m., East Field House (separate classes)
* **Off campus: **A wide variety of times and dates throughout April, May, and June ([list of classes][3]). Classes held at Loudon Nelson Center, 301 Center Street, Santa Cruz. (Small fee charged for non-city residents.) For more information and to register, call (831) 420-5250.

_Back to top_

### Upcoming classes from the Recreation Department

* **CPR class** on Friday, April 19, from 6 to 8:30 p.m. The cost is $20.
* **Blockprinting workshop** with Aura Weinbaum on Thursday, April 18, from 7 to 9 p.m. in the OPERS Conference Room. Cost is $15 and includes all materials.
* **Advanced Survival Skills,** Saturday and Sunday, April 20 & 21 from 10 am - 4 pm. Cost is $45 and includes materials fee. Location is the Recreation Office, EFH. Previous Survival Skills strongly recommended.
* **New Games and Teambuilding,** a great course for folks who work with groups, taught by Miranda Allen-Brower, on Sunday, April 28, from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Cost is $18 and it meets at the East Field near the sand volleyball courts.

Call the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806 for more information or to register over the phone with a credit card.  
_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][4]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][5] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][6]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page  
][7]
[1]: http://senate.ucsc.edu/Other/0102MTGS.htm
[2]: http://rape.ucsc.edu/
[3]: http://rape.ucsc.edu/self-defense.html
[4]: ../../construction.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[7]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/04-15/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
