---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Scientists detected a subtle movement of the flank of the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii, and geophysicist **Stephen Ward's** commentary on the findings led to widespread media coverage. Ward noted that a complete slope failure on Kilauea would generate a huge tsunami that could devastate the California coast. The story was covered by the _New York Times, New York Newsday,_ the Sydney (Australia) _Daily Telegraph,_ the syndicated column _Earthweek: A Diary of the Planet_ distributed by the _Los Angeles Times,_ and local TV stations KSBW (Ch. 8) and KPIX (Ch. 5).

**Dana Frank **of American studies discussed the fate of K-Mart on National Public Radio's _Talk of the Nation_ program, which reaches 2.3 million listeners across the country.

**Jonathan Fox** of Latin American and Latino studies provided valuable context for a _San Jose Mercury News_ story about Oaxacan immigrants and human rights problems.

**Garth Illingworth, **professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in stories in the _Houston Chronicle_ and on _CNN.com_ about a new camera installed by astronauts on the Hubble Space Telescope. Illingworth serves as the new camera's deputy principal investigator.

Professor of computer science **David Haussler** was quoted in recent stories about the human genome in the _San Jose Mercury News_ and on _Salon.com._

Associate professor of history **Dilip Basu** was cited in a _Washington Times_ story on the Satyajit Ray film retrospective in Washington, D.C.

**Tom Pettigrew** of psychology was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ article about the division along racial lines of former Enron employees who are seeking varied solutions to their sudden loss of jobs, severance, and savings.

Theater arts professor of dance **Mel Wong** was the subject of a feature story in the _San Jose Mercury News._  
  
**Mark Carr and Peter Raimondi,** both associate professors of ecology and evolutionary biology and principal investigators for the PISCO project (Partnership for Interdisciplinary Studies of Coastal Oceans), were quoted in several stories relating to a recent PISCO symposium. Stories ran in the _San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey Herald,_ and _Salinas Californian._ The researchers also did numerous interviews with local radio stations.

[Return to Front Page][1]


[1]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/03-18/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
