---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2138
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies and recent UCSC graduate Christopher J. Brown coauthored an opinion piece about the Salton Sea that ran in the Sunday edition of the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> on July 14.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of physics <b>Joel Primack</b> was featured prominently in a <i>Wall Street Journal</i> article about the space debris hazards that would be created by space-based (a.k.a. "Star Wars") defense systems.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> gave front-page coverage to a $300,000 gift to the campus from <b>Ramesh Bhojwani,</b> owner of the former Holiday Inn.
</p>
<p>
  <b>James McCloskey,</b> a professor of linguistics at UCSC, was quoted in an August 12 <i>Los Angeles Times</i> story about efforts by researchers to save a record of current linquistic diversity long after its speakers are gone. Their brainchild is the Rosetta Disk--a 3-inch disk containing micro-etched translations of the Book of Genesis in 1,000 languages.
</p>
<p>
  A cover story on global climate change in <i>Good Times</i> featured <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, and Sloan's graduate students, <b>Mark Snyder, Jason Bell,</b> and <b>Noah Suresh Diffenbaugh.<br></b>
</p>
<p>
  The <b>Educational Partnership Center</b>'s Gear Up program was featured on KCBS Radio in a live interview with EPC associate director <b>Laurie Scolari.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> coauthored an opinion piece for the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the widespread misconception that Latinos don't value the environment.
</p>
<p>
  Linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> recently published a letter to the editor in the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education.</i> His letter responded to an earlier article citing Harvard president Lawrence Summers's "grammatical crimes" as typical of a general decline in grammatically correct speaking and writing.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> assistant professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story in the <i>St. Petersburg Times</i> about an upcoming workshop that will address the threats posed by asteroids and comets that could potentially collide with the Earth.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/08-19/news.html "Permalink to news")
