---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/fox_jonathan.140.jpg
    - caption: "Jonathan Fox Photo: Jon Kersey"
---

Awards and Honors

**Menzie Chinn**

Menzie Chinn, a professor of economics, has been named a National Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Chinn will spend the academic year at the bureau's office in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and will devote his time to research and writing. Chinn, who specializes in international finance and macroeconomics, will investigate the modeling of exchange rates in a tripolar world. Chinn is one of three fellows selected for the 2002-03 year.   

Founded in 1920, the NBER is a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research organization dedicated to promoting a greater understanding of how the economy works. More than 600 university professors around the country are affiliated with the bureau, which attracts the leading scholars in their fields.

Jonathan Fox  

Jonathan Fox, professor and chair of Latin American and Latino studies, was honored recently for his work with indigenous Oaxacans. The Binational Oaxaca Indigenous Front (FIOB) presented him with a plaque and a symbolic staff of responsibility ("Baston de mando"). Presented in August during the group's annual cultural exchange festival, the plaque reads, in Spanish: "The Binational Oaxaca Indigenous Front recognizes Dr. Jonathan Fox for his unconditional support for the creation of binational projects to benefit indigenous Oaxacan migrants and non-migrants."  

The FIOB is a civic group that supports immigrant rights, indigenous rights, and community development. It supports Oaxacans in their hometowns in Mexico, as well as those who migrate to California. Fox has worked with the group for four years as part of his ongoing research on Mexican rural development policy.

**Geoffrey Pullum**

Linguistics professor Geoffrey Pullum gave a keynote address at the 41st Annual Meeting of the Japan Association of College English Teachers, at Aoyama  
Gakuin University, Tokyo. Pullum's talk, "Grammar for the 21st Century: Time for an Exorcism," argued that essentially no progress was made during the 20th century in replacing English grammar myths stemming from the 19th century and earlier.

**Donald Saposnek**

Donald Saposnek, a lecturer in psychology and a leader in the field of mediation, has been honored by his peers for his mediation work. Saposnek was named recipient of the 2002 John M. Haynes Distinguished Mediator Award, which is presented annually by the International Association for Conflict Resolution (ACR) in recognition of an individual's contributions to the field of mediation. Saposnek was selected from more than 7,000 members of the association, representing 47 countries and 18 different areas of mediation practice.   

Saposnek is a clinical child psychologist, family mediator, and national and international trainer in family mediation and child development. He has published extensively in the professional literature and is on the editorial boards of several international mediation journals. He is also editor of ACR's _Family Mediation News_ and the family section of _Mediate.com._ His book, _Mediating Child Custody Disputes,_ is considered a classic in the field.   
The award was presented in August at the association's annual convention in San Diego.

**Paul Whitworth**

Paul Whitworth, professor of theater arts, is currently starring in the American Conservatory Theatre revival of _Night and Day,_ by Tom Stoppard. Whitworth stars as George Guthrie, one of three journalists tracking a conflict between an African dictator and a rebel general that erupts into a coup. This 1978 play has been described by one critic as a "comic drawing room thriller." The production, at the Geary Theatre in San Francisco, runs through October 20.

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-23/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
