---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/abadi.02-08-19.224.jpg
    - caption: "Martin Abadi Photo: Tim Stephens"
  -
    - file: ../art/yildiz_fitnat.140.jpg
    - caption: "Fitnat Yildiz Photo: Tim Stephens"
---

New Faculty

**Martin Abadi**  
Professor of Computer Science

Martin Abadi has research interests in three main areas: computer and network security; programming languages; and methods for specification and verification of computer systems. Abadi serves on the editorial boards of several major computer science journals, has worked on important computer security protocols, and holds various patents for discoveries in distributed systems, programming language analysis, and computer security. Abadi earned his B.S. degree in mathematical sciences and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer science, all from Stanford University. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he worked in several industrial research laboratories, most recently as a senior researcher at Lucent Technologies Bell Lab facilities in Palo Alto.

**Fitnat Yildiz**  
Assistant Professor of Environmental Toxicology

Fitnat Yildiz studies the environmental factors involved in cholera outbreaks. She is interested in the processes that allow _Vibrio cholerae,_ the bacteria that causes Asiatic cholera, to survive in aquatic environments. Understanding the environmental life cycle of this important human pathogen will be useful for the prediction and control of cholera epidemics, which kill an estimated 120,000 people worldwide every year. Yildiz earned her B.S. in biology at Hacettepe University in Ankara, Turkey, and her Ph.D. in microbiology and molecular biology from Indiana University. Before joining the UCSC faculty, she was a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University School of Medicine.  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/08-19/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
