---
layout: post
title: "United Way campaign starts October 21"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/united1.02-09-30.gif
    - caption: 
---

Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, Academic Senate Chair George Blumenthal, and Staff Advisory Board Chair Ed Titus are urging campuswide participation in the 2003 United Way Campaign, October 21-31. The campus theme this year is "Make a Difference in Our Community."

One gift helps thousands of people in the Santa Cruz County community. Donation dollars have been scarce due to the economic downturn, meaning local nonprofit agencies are especially in need of help this year.

Campus liaisons have been asked to plan silent, white-elephant auctions in their units or divisions. The auctions are designed to bring attention to the 2003 campaign and also raise extra money for local agencies in an enjoyable way.

Campaign contributions have been made even easier this year. Employees who already participate in payroll deductions will receive a new, simplified postcard that will help them make changes to their contributions if needed.

All other employees will receive a fundraising letter, pledge form, and return envelope in their campus mailboxes the week of October 21.

All money raised by the campus drive remains in Santa Cruz County.

**Frequently asked questions:**

Potential donors wanting to learn more about Santa Cruz County United Way may check the organization's [website,][1] which includes the following frequently asked questions:

**Q: If I am already giving, and I don't want to make changes to my contribution, do I need to do anything?**   
A: No, you do not. Your contribution will automatically continue.

**Q: Does the United Way give to the Boy Scouts? **  
A: No, the Santa Cruz County United Way does not. That organization was taken off the recipient list six years ago due to refusal to sign the nondiscrimination form required by the Santa Cruz County United Way. However, you can designate a donation specifically to the Boy Scouts or any other nonprofit organization by completing part C. on your pledge form.   
  
**Q: Can I donate to a nonprofit organization not supported directly by the United Way general fund? **  
A: Yes, in section C. on your donor pledge form, you may designate any nonprofit organization, as long as the organization has valid 503(c) nonprofit status, to receive your contribution. A minimum of $100.00 annually ($8.50 per month) is required, if the organization is not one of the United Way member agencies.  
  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/united-way/
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-30/united.html "Permalink to united")
