---
layout: post
title: "Rainbow Theater performances start October 24"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rainbow.02-10-14.224.jpg
    - caption: "The Rainbow Theater troupe"
---

The multicultural Rainbow Theater will perform five one-act plays on a range of subjects in late October and early November.   

Rainbow Theater, produced and founded by Don Williams, seeks to foster the spirit of unity between races, and to be conscious of current issues and concerns in society. The troupe is in its ninth year.

"We touch upon so many cultures--those whose stories often don't get to be told," said Williams. He said this year's performances include the first play with a South Asian theme, _First Seed._

This year's plays are _Day of Absence, Food for the Dead, Raunchy Asian Women, First Seed_, and _Poet's Corner._

Douglas Turner Ward's _Day of Absence_ is a chilling satire about what would happen to life in the South if all the African Americans were to disappear for 24 hours. Turner's depiction of the white South and its dependence on black labor is both stunning and entertaining. Directing is Allyson Evans.

_Food for the Dead_ deals with homosexuality in Mexican American culture in conjunction with family issues that create comedy and drama. Directing are Xavier Alvarez and Raquel Hernandez.

Throughout _Raunchy Asian Women,_ women look for their identity in America, breaking the stereotypes of Asian women. Directing are Kaoru Sunami and Jeremy Aaron Kaffin.

_First Seed_ deals with dual culturalism and domestic violence through the eyes of a South Asian/ Indian American family. The story focuses on an arranged marriage. "It gives us a real insight on the culture we see but very seldom hear," noted Williams. Directing are Aman Gohal and Anand Sha, who also wrote the play together.

_Poet's Corner, _which is all student-written, includes some improvisational elements, dance and the poety. Directing are Yadira De La Riva, P.J. Johnson, and Peter Jensen.

Ticket prices are $5 for students and $7 for adults, and are available at the door. Audiences should expect mature content and language. All shows will be at 8 p.m.

_Day of Absence, Raunchy Asian Women,_ and _The First Seed_ will be performed October 24 and 26 at Stevenson College Dining Hall, and November 2 at Louden Nelson Community Center, 301 Center Street, Santa Cruz.

_Food for the Dead_ and _Poet's Corner_ will be performed October 25 and 27 at Stevenson College Dining Hall, and November 1 at Louden Nelson.

  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-21/rainbow.html "Permalink to rainbow")
