---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/birds.200.jpg
    - caption: "Birds of New Zealand by Karina I. Helm (c) 2002"
---

### 'Illustrating Nature' exhibit at Natural History Museum

The 2002 Illustrating Nature exhibit, featuring student works from the science illustration track of the Science Communication Program, will be on display May 4 through June 9 at the Santa Cruz Museum of Natural History. The show features 68 pieces in a wide array of techniques. This year's particularly diverse group of illustrations covers subjects from zoology and botany to geology, paleontology, and historical reconstruction. Students will be providing a demonstration of various illustration techniques at the museum on Saturday, May 18, from 10 a.m. to noon.   
  
The museum is located at 1305 East Cliff Drive in Santa Cruz and is open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Parking permits are available at the reception desk.) For more information, call the museum at (831) 420-6115 or Jennifer Kane at (831) 459-8316.  
_Back to top_

### Chancellor to speak at staff forum May 6

Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood will address a range of issues at the Spring Staff Forum from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Monday, May 6, in the Media Theater, Room M110, at the Theater Arts Center.  
  
The "brown-bag" forum is sponsored by the Chancellor's Office and the Staff Advisory Board.

Later this month, Chancellor Greenwood will host the second annual free staff breakfast, sponsored by the Staff Advisory Board. "Pancakes and Jazz with M.R.C." will be held from 7:30 to 9:30 a.m. at Stevenson Dining Hall on Wednesday, May 22. The Latin jazz quartet, Carne Cruda, will perform, and there will be raffle drawings for prizes.  
_Back to top_

### California First Lady Sharon Davis to visit campus

Sharon Davis, wife of Governor Gray Davis, will visit UCSC on Tuesday, April 30. Chancellor Greenwood and other campus representatives will brief the state's "first lady" on several programs, including the New Teacher Center and the Educational Partnership Center. Her visit will include tours of the Seymour Marine Discovery Center, where the meeting will take place, and Science Hill.   
_Back to top_

### KZSC holding Spring Pledge Drive

88.1 FM KZSC Santa Cruz, listener-supported, educational, public radio for the masses (recent winner of the Silver in the 2002 Santa Cruz Metro's Readers' Choice Awards) is holding its Spring 2002 Pledge Drive April 29 through May 12. Call (831) 459-2811 or 459-4036 to make a pledge. And check out the [station web site][1].  
_Back to top_

### Summer fun for kids at Life Lab day camp

If you're looking for fun summer activities for the youngsters in your life, consider the Wildlands and Watering Cans Summer Day Camp at the UCSC Farm. Children ages 7 to 10 are invited to register for week-long sessions filled with hands-on gardening and wilderness activities.

Offered this year by the Life Lab Science Program and the Center for Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems, the camp is designed to foster environmental awareness while encouraging children to cooperate and have fun outside. Children will make garden journals, go on bug walks, hike Pogonip, build bird feeders, and do lots more. Campers need to provide their own lunch and water bottle for each day.

Sessions are scheduled for June 24-28, July 8-12, and July 15-19. The curriculum will be repeated each week. Each session will serve 24 campers from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The ratio of instructors to campers will be 1:6 to allow for close personal instruction. Cost is $150 per session, or $135 for members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden. Call (831) 459-2001 for more information or to request a registration packet.  
_Back to top_

### BAS offering one-day seminar on effective interviewing

Hiring new staff and hiring new faculty are among the most critical activities managers and leaders make on behalf of the university, yet few of us receive training beyond how to avoid legal challenges. Effective Interviewing!(r) is a behavior-based methodology that uses the recognized principle that past and present behavior are the best predictors of future performance.

Participants learn how to define jobs in competency terms and then apply an easy-to-use interview model, which uses high-impact questions to validate candidates' past experiences and predict future job performance. The seminar's interactive format promotes maximum learning with role-play practice, feedback, live and videotape demonstrations. Participants receive a 125-page manual with a set of convenient Pocket Pack review cards and audiocassette.  
  
An Effective Interviewing!(r) seminar will take place at UCSC on Friday, May 10, from 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. The cost is $200 per person. For more information, contact Susan Willats at (831) 459-3759. Register online through the [BAS Events Manager.][2]  
_Back to top_

### Feminist conference explores changes in South Asia

"Feminist Interventions: Rethinking South Asia" is the title of a conference which will be held May 3 and 4 at UCSC. Participants include faculty from many UC campuses as well as institutions around the U.S. Presentations will explore what constitutes the subjects and studies of South Asia, including the issues of gender, history, diasporas, visual cultures, and literatures. The conference is free and open to the public; see the [schedule][3] for location and session details. For more information contact Anjali Arondekar at (831) 459-4748.  
_Back to top_

### King Convocation Committee seeking input

The Martin Luther King, Jr. Convocation Committee is seeking recommendations from the campus community for next year's convocation speaker. Following the success of this year's program with Alice Walker, they hope to bring to the campus a prominent male speaker who can present an engaging and thought-provoking discussion of current civil rights issues. Suggestions should be sent to the committee convener, Trink Praxel, at [trink@cats.ucsc.edu][4] no later than Friday, May 17. Anyone interested in joining the committee to develop next year's convocation is welcome and should also contact Trink Praxel for further information.  
_Back to top_

### Upcoming classes from the Recreation Department

Register for these classes through the UCSC Recreation Department at (831) 459-2806, Monday - Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

**Wilderness First Aid & Wilderness First Responder Recertification  
**Saturday and Sunday, May 18 and 19, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., in Room 175, Stevenson College; $100/UCSC students, $140/non-UCSC students. Two-day course used by many organizations to introduce first aid and long-term patient care to trip leaders, guides, and rescue team members. Covers basics of emergency care with emphasis on extended-care situations. Instructors are staff of the Wilderness Medicine Institute. For more information, cal (831) 459-2806.  
  
**Wilderness First Responder**  
Friday, June 7 - Sunday, June 16; 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (and some evenings) in the Multipurpose Room, East Field House; $425/UCSC students, $480/non-UCSC students. 80-hour course designed to provide outdoor leaders, guides, rangers, and travelers with the knowledge needed to deal with medical emergencies in remote settings. Emphasis is placed on prevention and decision making. Instructors are staff of the Wilderness Medicine Institute. Certifications upon successful completion.  
_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][5]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][6] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][7]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page  
][8]
[1]: http://kzsc.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://bas.ucsc.edu/dev/events/index.cfm.
[3]: http://humwww.ucsc.edu/CultStudies/EVENTS/Spring02/S02feminvenprog.html
[4]: mailto:trink@cats.ucsc.edu
[5]: ../../construction.html
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[8]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/04-29/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
