---
layout: post
title: "'Reality' in art explored in lecture and film screening"
author: Ann M. Gibb
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/godzich.w.02-10-07.180.jpg
    - caption: "Humanities Dean Wlad Godzich will speak at the annual Sidhartha Maitra Memorial Lecture and film screening, an event which will also feature the showing of Satyajit Ray's film Charulata. Photo: r.r. jones"
---

The explosion of "reality" shows during the last few years might make the viewing public think realism is a concept recently invented by television networks. But in "200 Years of Reality Shows," a talk by UCSC dean of humanities Wlad Godzich, true realism in the arts is revealed as something far different from _Survivor._  

Godzich's talk, on October 12 at 7 p.m. in the UC Santa Cruz Music Center Recital Hall, is free and open to the public.

"200 Years of Reality Shows" is the second Sidhartha Maitra Memorial Lecture and film screening, an annual event sponsored by the UC Santa Cruz Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection and Humanities Division.

It will be followed by a reception and then a screening of Ray's 1964 film _Charulata_ (Lonely Wife). Ray's work is well known for his emphasis on reality and humanity. _Charulata,_ which Ray called "my most perfect film," explores politics, passion, and love through the experiences of an upper middle class, western-educated Indian family living in colonial Calcutta. The film is newly restored and includes subtitles.

The Sidhartha Maitra Memorial Lecture series was established by Anuradha Luther Maitra in honor of her husband, who was a scientist, entrepreneur, and admirer of Ray's work.

Maitra was also an early supporter of the Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection, which was established in 1993 to collect, preserve, and provide scholarly access to Ray's films, papers, books, and artwork.

In addition to being dean of humanities, Godzich is a professor of literature at UCSC. He has written and lectured widely on humanities topics, including theories of literature and the globlization of culture.

For more information on the 2002 Sidhartha Maitra Memorial Lecture and film screening, call (831) 459-4012 or (831) 459-4713.

  
  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-07/realism.html "Permalink to realism")
