---
layout: post
title: "Wednesday recital series begins January 9"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 804
images:
---

<p>
  Everything from Neo-Balkan Jazz to classical guitar is on the schedule for the Wednesday Evening Recital Series in January and February presented by UCSC's Department of Music.<br>
  <br>
  "There's a little bit of this, a little bit of that," said Sabrina Eastwood, public events manager for the Division of the Arts. The series will include UCSC faculty members as well as guest performers. All performances will be at 8 p.m. at the Music Center Recital Hall. Aside from the program on Thursday, January 24, performances will be on Wednesdays.<br>
  <br>
  The following performances are scheduled:<br>
  <br>
  <b>An Evening of Interactive Electronic Music,</b> January 9. Peter Elsea, director of UCSC's Electronic Music Studios, presents a recital of his compositions, including recorded compositions, works for performers with computer-modified sounds, and algorithmically generated pieces for sound and projected graphics. Elsea is a lecturer in music at UCSC.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Music for flute, clarinet, and voice,</b> January 16. Susan Waller, flute, and Mark Brandenburg, clarinet, are joined by guest artists Marcia Gronewold, mezzo soprano, and Miles Graber, piano, in a varied program of music by Copland, Reinecke, Mozart, and Francaix, as well as more contemporary works by Jennifer Higdon, Katherine Hoover, and Lester Trimble. Waller and Brandenburg are UCSC music lecturers; Gronewald and Graber are guest artists.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Music for Piano Trio by UCSC Composers,</b> January 24. Guest artists Ian Swensen, violin; Jean-Michel Fonteneau, cello; and Gwendolyn Mok, piano; perform music for piano trio by Beethoven and UCSC faculty composers Hi Kyung Kim, associate professor, and Paul Nauert, assistant professor, of music.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Neo-Balkan Jazz &amp; Hesterian Musicism,</b> January 30. Composer/pianist David Evan Jones is joined by drummer George Marsh and guest artists for the first half of the evening in a program of Neo-Balkan Jazz. Jones is a professor of music at UCSC; Marsh is a lecturer. On the second half of the program, composer and instrumentalist Karlton Hester and guest artists perform compositions by Hester, including several set to the poetry of UCSC professor of literature Nathaniel Mackey. Hester is an assistant professor of music.<br>
  <br>
  <b>William Coulter, guitar,</b> February 6. Traditional music from the Celtic lands, America, and beyond, with special guest fiddler Deby Benton Grosjean. Coulter is a music lecturer.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Anatole Leikin, piano,</b> February 13. Associate Professor Leikin, chairman of the Music Department, presents a performance of piano works by Chopin along with an informal--and entertaining--lecture about the program.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Mesut Ozgen, classical guitar,</b> February 20. Music lecturerMesut Ozgen and friends perform solo and ensemble classical guitar music from Turkish, Greek, American, Spanish, and Latin American folk traditions.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Jane Orzel, bassoon,</b> February 27. This recital by music lecturer Jane Orzel features chamber music, "Fantasy for Bassoon" by Malcolm Arnold (1966), and "3 Elegies for Bassoon and Piano," by Emile Naoumoff (1962).<br>
  <br>
  Tickets for the performances are $5 for UCSC students with ID, faculty, and staff; $10 for general admission; and $8 for seniors. Call the UCSC Ticket Office at (831) 459-2159.
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/01-07/music.html "Permalink to music")
