---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/opera.jpg
    - caption: "Alexis Magaro performs in Tchaikovsky's Eugene Onegin with Gerd Vogel at the Opernhaus Halle near Leipzig, Germany."
  -
    - file: ../art/dininghall_reopening.jpg
    - caption: "Festivities to mark the reopening of Crown Dining Hall included a ribbon-cutting ceremony with (l-r) interim Crown CAO Alex Belisario, Crown Provost Joel Ferguson, and Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. Photo courtesy of Crown College"
---

### Crown Dining Hall reopens after renovation

The Crown Dining Hall reopened in May after a year's closure for extensive renovation. The dining hall now has an attractive, roomy, and efficient serving area illuminated with natural light. New features also include a full grill, pizza production area, and salad and deli counters outside the main serving area.

The dining hall reopened with a ribbon-cutting ceremony on May 21 attended by Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, Crown Provost Joel Ferguson, and interim Crown CAO Alex Belisario, followed that evening with a Casino Night and live band for students. The following week, the college held a lunch for the architects, staff, students, and contractors involved in the planning, redesign, and renovation of the facility.  
  
The 30-year-old facility required major renovation to accommodate the increased numbers of students at Crown and Merrill Colleges, and to upgrade refrigeration and heating systems to conform to new standards. Seismic and other building systems were updated as well. Banana Joe's, the college coffee shop, reopened in spring 2001 after similar renovation  
_Back to top_

### Cowell College sponsors opera recital__

Soprano Alexis Magaro will present a recital of operatic works at 3 p.m. on Sunday, July 7, at Calvary Episcopal Church in Santa Cruz. The event is sponsored by Cowell College and the Santa Cruz Opera Society.  
  
Magaro, a 1978 Cowell College graduate in literature, has been performing in Europe for the last several years. She will present works by Puccini, Verdi, Bellini, and Donizetti. Pianist Stephen Tosh will accompany Magaro. A donation at the door will be requested._  
Back to top_

### **Work on housing access policy continuing over summer**

The committee looking at access policies for university-owned housing for faculty and staff is meeting throughout the summer and plans to make a recommendation in early October to John Simpson, campus provost and executive vice chancellor.  
  
Simpson had initially directed the committee to make a recommendation on housing by June 15, but the committee requested more time to gather information and receive input from the campus community, said Assistant Chancellor Leslie Sunell, the committee chair. A campus forum on housing was held May 20.  
  
In August, the [Campus Welfare Committee][1] will receive the results of an independent survey of demand for university-sponsored housing among faculty and staff. The committee is now working on a concept paper to be used in further discussion with the campus community in the fall. A second public forum on housing issues is planned for mid-September. (See [related _Currents_ stories][2])  
_Back to top_

### Life Lab Garden Classroom hosts Family Science Day June 29

The new Life Lab Garden Classroom is hosting a Family Science Day on Saturday, June 29, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Adjacent to the UCSC Farm, this new 2-acre educational facility is an outdoor classroom designed for children, where youngsters can explore scientific concepts through garden-based exhibits and activities.

Bring the whole family to explore the wonders of garden-based science. Learn about life science while learning to garden. Cost is $15 for a family of 2-4 people, $5 for each additional child. For more information or to make reservations, please call (831) 459-2001.

While school groups can visit the facility on organized tours during the school year, Family Science Day provides an opportunity for families to explore the engaging, hands-on exhibits together. Highlights include an outdoor kitchen, the "Rot Zone" featuring 10 different composting systems, chickens, a weather station, a pollination garden, a water garden, and the "Sensual Spiral" that highlights plants with different textures, smells, and colors.  
_Back to top_

### 'Colleges, Housing, Dining and Child Care Services' changes its name

Effective July 1, the Colleges, Housing, Dining and Child Care Services organization is changing its name to Colleges and University Housing Services. While the change was made to simplify the unit's name, it also "symbolizes the culmination of over four years of various levels of change processes, organizational planning, discussions and considerations of future models for organizing and delivering our services and programs," said Associate Vice Chancellor Jean Marie Scott.  
  
Additional information about the Colleges and University Housing Services, including its organization and new mission, values, and vision statements, is available at the [Colleges, Housing, Dining, and Child Care Services][3] web site.  
_Back to top_

### Outdoor Equipment Rental Center open this summer

The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center is open during the summer on Tuesdays and Thursdays through the first week of August. The center has surfboards, boogie boards, wet suits, booties, sleeping bags, tents, backpacks, stoves, lanterns, and other camping equipment. Staff, faculty, and UCSC Summer Session students may rent gear with a valid ID and driver's license. Hours are noon to 5:30 p.m. The Outdoor Equipment Rental Center is located at the East Field House in the two-story building next to the pool. For more information, call (831) 459-2800.  
_Back to top_

### UC Education Abroad recruiting for study center directorships and visiting professorships beginning in 2003

The UC universitywide Office of the Education Abroad Program currently has openings for study center directorships and visiting professorships in the following countries: Chile, Egypt, France (Bordeaux), Italy (Siena/Rome- new), Japan (Tokyo), Japan (Meiji-Gakuin \- spring program), Japan (Meiji-Gakuin - fall program - new), Mexico, Russia, UK/I Edinburgh, UK/I London (Bloomsbury), and Vietnam.  
  
Tenured UC faculty, including lecturers with security of employment, and emeriti professors are eligible to apply. The deadline for receipt of completed applications is 5 p.m. Wednesday, October 2, 2002.  
  
Detailed information may be obtained on the [faculty opportunities section][4] of the Education Abroad Program web site. For general information about the program, visit the main pages of the [EAP web site.][5]  
_Back to top_

### Fire Department offers CPR and basic first aid classes

The Campus Fire Department is now offering CPR/Basic First Aid classes several times a month (no child CPR). Fire Department staff are now able to offer classes for up to 20 people per class on weekdays, weekends, or evenings. (Previously only two classes per month with a maximum of 10 people per class were offered.) Classes in Spanish will be given when class size reaches a minimum of six people. The objective is to train 2,000 people per year in CPR and first aid.  
  
The course takes approximately seven hours to complete and is on a first-come, first-served registration basis. The cost is $35, payable in advance at the campus Fire Department, by cash, recharge, or check (made payable to the UC Regents). Failure to appear forfeits fee. Cancellation is required 48 hours prior to class for refund or rescheduling. No exceptions.   
  
For more information or to reserve space, call (831) 459-3473.  
_Back to top_

### Women at Work offers group tickets for Shakespeare Santa Cruz performances

Reduced-price tickets for [Shakespeare Santa Cruz][6] are once again being offered to staff and faculty by Women at Work. Tickets, priced at $16 per performance, are available for the following three performances:

* July 26, **_Merry Wives of Windsor,_** 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 2, **_The Sea Gull,_** 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 16, **_Coriolanus,_** 8 p.m., Theater Arts Mainstage

To order tickets, fill out the [request form][7] on the web or call Diana Sue Miller at (831) 459-2882. Orders must be submitted by noon on July 22.  
_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][8]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][9] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][10]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page  
][11]
[1]: http://planning.ucsc.edu/pac/cwc.html
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-27/housing.html
[3]: http://housingweb.ucsc.edu/welcome.cfm
[4]: http://www.eap.ucop.edu/faculty/directorrecruit.htm
[5]: http://www.eap.ucop.edu/
[6]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer02/welcome.shtml
[7]: ../05-27/ticket_form.html
[8]: ../../construction.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[11]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-24/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
