---
layout: post
title: "Porter student injured"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

A UCSC student fell from a fourth-floor dormitory window at Porter College on November 6, sustaining internal injuries, and was airlifted to Stanford Medical Center. Gavin Williamson, 18, is listed in serious but stable condition in the Intensive Care Unit.  
  
UCSC police were investigating the case at week's end and were unsure what caused the Glendale freshman to break through the window at around 5:45 p.m.  

Williamson underwent eight hours of surgery on Friday, and came through "extremely well," Porter College Administrative Officer Michael Yamauchi-Gleason said in a message to the Porter community. Yamauchi-Gleason has been acting as a spokesman for Williamson's family.  

Yamauchi-Gleason said that Williamson's mother, Janet, told him that her son was able to respond by blinking his eyes and grasping objects with his left and right hand on Saturday morning. "She was very upbeat. However, based on the extent of Gavin's injuries, he will be partially paralyzed. At this time the paralysis is from the chest down," Yamauchi-Gleason said.  

Janet Williamson has requested that those wishing to visit her son hold off until Friday, when it is hoped he will be out of the Intensive Care Unit.

_This story will be updated as new information is available._  
  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-11/injured.html "Permalink to injured")
