---
layout: post
title: "Campus establishes lecture series to honor Fred Keeley"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/plaque.02-12-16.224.jpg
    - caption: "Chancellor Greenwood presents a commemoratative plaque to Fred Keeley as campus provost and executive vice chancellor John Simpson looks on. (Additional photos) Photo: Victor Schiffrin"
---

Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood announced last week the creation of a lecture series to honor former state Assemblyman Fred Keeley. She made the announcement at a reception at University House, where Keeley was recognized for his contributions to education and environmental policy.  

The inaugural Keeley Lecture on Environmental Policy will take place in spring 2003.   

"Our vision is to provide an annual opportunity for the campus and the community to come together to learn and interact on current issues related to the environment," Greenwood said.  

The lecture series will complement the new STEPS Institute for Innovation in Environmental Research, said STEPS director John Thompson, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.  

"The beauty of this new lecture series is it will bring in people who can link science and policy to address environmental issues," Thompson said.  

The lecture series will be supported by private donations. Keeley announced at the reception that he would contribute $5,000 to the UCSC Foundation tosupport the lectures.   

Nearly 200 community leaders attended the reception, including Congressman Sam Farr, Senator Bruce McPherson, and Assemblyman Joe Simitian. UC assistant vice president for state government relations Stephen Arditti also attended, along with UCSC Foundation Trustees Dave Regan, Harriet Deck, James Fuller, Meg Giberson, Paul and Anne Levin, and Tom Rees.


[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-16/keeley.html "Permalink to keeley")
