---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Research on the West Antarctic ice sheet by **Slawek Tulaczyk,** assistant professor of Earth sciences, received widespread media coverage, including articles in the _New York Times, Philadelphia Inquirer, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News, Christian Science Monitor,_ and _The Independent_ (London). Wire service stories by Associated Press, UPI, and Reuters ran in many other newspapers. Tulaczyk did telephone interviews with UPI, CBC Radio, German public radio, and the Polish national daily newspaper _Gazeta Wyborcza._ The story was also reported on CNN TV and NPR's _Morning Edition._

In the wake of Kmart's bankruptcy filing, the _Denver Post_ looked to American studies professor **Dana Frank** for comment on the discount chain's strong blue-collar roots.  
  
**Terrie Williams,** associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and Ida Benson Lynn Professor of Ocean Health, was featured in a _San Jose Mercury News_ story about her research on Weddell seals in Antarctica.

The _San Francisco Chronicle Magazine_ ran a lengthy [profile][1] of **Sarah Gerhardt,** a Ph.D. candidate in physical chemistry at UCSC and the first woman to ride the huge waves at Maverick's break off Half Moon Bay. The story was written by alum Louise Rafkin (M.A., literature '81).  
  
Professor of astronomy and astrophysics **Douglas Lin** was featured in a story in _New Scientist_ magazine about planets outside the solar system.  
  
The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about research by astronomer **Greg Laughlin** on the habitability of a nearby planetary system.

The _Mid-County Post _talked to university archivist **Rita Bottoms** as part of a story on artist Daniel Stolpe, whose work is held in the Special Collections Archive at McHenry Library.

[Return to Front Page][2]
[1]: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/chronicle/archive/2001/12/30/CM213633.DTL
[2]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/01-28/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
