---
layout: post
title: "memo"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2082
images:
---

<p>
  <span class="pageheadblack">July 19, 2002<br></span>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Memo:</b> To the Campus Community
</p>
<p>
  <span class="pageheadblack"><b>Re:</b> Closure of the Whole Earth Restaurant</span>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="pageheadblack"><b>From:</b> Graduate Student Commons Governance Board</span>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="pageheadblack">The closure of the Whole Earth restaurant was a joint decision of the university and the Graduate Student Commons Governance Board, governing body for the Graduate Student Commons building. The decision to close the Whole Earth was not an easy decision due to the restaurant's long history at UC Santa Cruz. The university worked at length with restaurant management to resolve a number of financial and legal issues, but ultimately we were forced to terminate the restaurant contract.<br></span>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="pageheadblack">The Governance Board understands that the closure of this longtime university tenant is disappointing to many on campus, and we are currently working to replace food and beverage services in the space as quickly as possible. In the interim, options for im</span>mediate temporary substitute services are being explored, and outside patio seating will be left made available for customers of the Express Store and the campus community.<br>
</p>
<p>
  In the forthcoming months, the Governance Board and members of the campus community will be reviewing vendor applications for a new restaurant. We hope to replace the Whole Earth with a vibrant new restaurant providing the casual ambiance, excellent service, and wide-variety of menu items, both vegetarian and non-vegetarian, expected by the campus community. The Governance Board is committed to providing a restaurant that both matches the atmosphere and culture of the UCSC campus and serves as a dining focal point for the new Quarry Plaza.
</p>
<p>
  We would like to take this opportunity to solicit campuswide comments on replacement vendors and food options through an <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/gradcommons/rest_survey.html">online survey</a><span class="pageheadblack">.</span>
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/07-22/memo.html "Permalink to memo")
