---
layout: post
title: "Triplets in COSMOS program share interest in lab science"
author: Christine Dunn
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/triplets.02-09-23.180.jpg
    - caption: "Triplets Erica, top, Monica, left, and Sonia Mireles roomed separately during the four-week COSMOS program. Photo: Greg Pio"
---

, UC Office of the President

People at the California State Summer School in Mathematics and Science may have thought they were seeing not just double, but triple. But MESA Schools Program students Erica, Monica and Sonia Mireles, are used to turning heads as identical triplets.

The sisters, who are entering their senior year at Sanger High School, attended the four-week residential program at UC Santa Cruz.

COSMOS brings scientific experts and motivated high school students together to explore a wide range of scientific disciplines.

"We were already interested in math and science, but this program really opened up our minds," said Erica.

COSMOS students sign up for one of 10 thematic course clusters that include hands-on activities and a final presentation. Communication classes and field trips to neighboring research centers and scientific facilities are included in each cluster.

The girls decided not to room together, thereby tripling the number of new friends they would make, and decided to select their COSMOS cluster privately. "We didn't want to influence each other," said Sonia. The girls were surprised to discover that they all chose "Lab Science in Everyday Life," a cluster with a concentration on organic chemistry and environmental toxicology.

The girls made their choice with their eyes on the future. Erica would like to major in chemistry and Sonia is leaning toward biochemistry. Monica, who would like to be a pediatrician, plans to major in biology. "I have always liked little kids and science," said Monica.

Being triplets is not the only reason the sisters are standouts. Seniors at Sanger High School (CSU Fresno MESA Center), Erica, Monica and Sonia are taking three advanced placement classes and three honors classes. They hold leadership positions in their MESA club and are members of the California Scholarship Federation, the Spanish club, the science club and a medical careers club. Before coming to COSMOS the girls attended a legislative leadership camp at Occidental College. They finished off their summer at a two-week band camp. "We want to take advantage of as many opportunities as we can," said Sonia.

The girls also are working to spread the MESA message. "We wanted our younger sister to be in MESA. They didn't offer it at her middle school so we made an appointment to meet with the principal and he agreed to add it next year," said Erica.

The time for the Mireles sisters to turn in their applications to college is fast approaching. Although they may not know where they will be next fall, it is a certainty that they will be on a college campus, taking advantage of every opportunity that comes their way, and creating some of their own.  
  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-23/cosmos.html "Permalink to cosmos")
