---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/tannenbaum_julie.140.jpg
    - caption: "Julie Tannenbaum Photo: Patrick Chuang"
  -
    - file: ../art/tao_hai.140.jpg
    - caption: "Hai Tao Photo: Tim Stephens"
---

New Faculty

Julie Tannenbaum  
Assistant Professor of Philosophy

Julie Tannenbaum's research involves the nature of moral action and its relation to moral motivation. She investigates the tensions between Kantian philosophy, which espouses action from duty, and Aristotelian philosophy, which promotes actions arising from love, sympathy, and compassion. Her article "Acting with Feeling from Duty" in _Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,_ vol. 5 (3), 2002, explores the middle ground between these two points of view.  
Tannenbaum received her B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. in philosophy from UCLA.

Hai Tao  
Assistant Professor of Computer Engineering  

Hai Tao's research interests include image and video processing, computer vision, vision-based computer graphics, and human-computer interaction. His research projects include immersive telepresence, image-based rendering, tracking and detecting multiple objects, and modeling, analysis, and animation of human faces. Tao received B.S. and M.S. degrees in automation from Tsinghua University in China, an M.S. degree in electrical and computer engineering from Mississippi State University, and a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was a member of the technical staff in the Vision Technology Laboratory at Sarnoff Corporation, New Jersey.  
  

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-18/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
