---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/plant_sale3.200.jpg
    - caption: "The UCSC Fall Plant Sale offers gardeners a rich and timely selection of certified organic vegetable seedlings, perennials, and California natives. Photo: Pete Lowey"
---

More News

UCSC Fall Plant Sale Sept. 13-14 boosts year-round gardening

Warm fall days and mild winters make year-round gardening a reality on the Central Coast. And as surely as September ushers in warm days, the UCSC Fall Plant Sale offers gardeners a rich and timely selection of certified organic vegetable seedlings, perennials, and California natives.   

Sponsored by the UCSC Farm at the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems, the sale takes place on Friday and Saturday, September 13 and 14, from noon to 6 p.m. on Friday and 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Saturday, in the Barn Theater parking lot.  

Leeks, rainbow chards, salad greens, and Brassicas like broccoli and kale are just a few of the vegetables that can be planted this fall for winter harvest. The sale also will feature perennial flowers and shrubs, including culinary herbs, subtropical salvias, herbaceous perennials like yarrow and Lady's Mantle, and a limited selection of California natives and roses.   

The sale will benefit the UCSC Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture. Members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden receive a 10 percent discount on purchases; memberships will be available at the sale. For more information about the Fall Plant Sale or the Friends of the Farm & Garden, call (831) 459-3240.  
_Back to top_

OPERS Fall Festival set for September 17

The Office of Physical Education, Recreation, and Sports will hold its annual Fall Festival on Tuesday, September 17, from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Upper Field at the East Field House. The festival gives the campus community an opportunity to check out the intramural program, recreation and physical education classes, sports and recreation clubs, campus organizations and resource centers, and student services. There'll be live music and dancing and a fabulous BBQ dinner (free with a UCSC meal card or $8 for the general public). Call (831) 459-2806 for more information.  
_Back to top_   

Residence hall move-ins begin Thursday, September 12

Residence hall move-ins will begin the morning of Thursday, September 12, as students begin settling into Crown College, College Ten, and Merrill College. College Ten students will be moving in from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., while Crown and Merrill move-ins will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.  

On Friday, College Nine students will be moving in from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Crown and Merrill from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.; Kresge, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.; College Eight, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Oakes, 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.; and Porter, 9 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.  

Move-ins throughout campus will continue on Saturday and Sunday, beginning at 8 a.m. both days. Classes begin on Wednesday, September 18.  
_Back to top_

UC settles with Arthur Andersen's international firms in Enron lawsuit

On behalf of Enron Corp. investors, the University of California has tentatively reached, subject to the approval of certain of the principals and the court, a $40 million settlement with Arthur Andersen's international umbrella organization in the Enron securities and pension class-action suits.  

Andersen Worldwide, SC, and its non-U.S. member firms will be released from liability and dismissed from the suit; the U.S. firm (Arthur Andersen LLP) and its members will not be released and will remain in the suit.  

The settlement funds will eventually be divided among class members on the basis of an allocation formula that estimates their pro-rata share of total class damages. The division of the Andersen payment between the securities and pension classes will also be determined later. [See full story._  
_][1]_Back to top_

Fire Slug T-shirts on sale at fire station

Sammy Slug has a new t-shirt, and it's available at the UCSC fire station. The navy blue Fire Slug T-shirts sport a logo created by fire captain Paul Babb, and are being sold to raise money for the UC Fire Fighters Association.

The 100-percent cotton shirts are available in small, medium, large, extra-large, and extra-extra-large. The XXL shirts sell for $18; the rest cost $17. Checks should be made payable to the "UC Fire Fighters Association."

Shirts are available from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., except during the lunch hour, Monday through Friday. Call (831) 459-2339 to arrange sales at other times.  
_Back to top_

Parking lot closes to make way for Engineering Building

Preparation work for the new UCSC Engineering Building has prompted the closing of Lot 139, the lot behind Baskin Engineering Building. The lot is expected to remain closed, with the contractor likely to break ground on the new building this month. New handicapped spaces are available for those who require them. There are also some spaces reserved for university and service vehicles. Others should park in the Core West Parking Structure or Lot 150, which is also known as the North Perimeter Lot. Guests to the campus may use pay station spaces at the parking structure.

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][2] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site._  
_][3]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][4]

[1]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2002/aug27art1.htm
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[3]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[4]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-09/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
