---
layout: post
title: "Academic Senate to meet on May 16"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1935
images:
---

<p class="sectionheadblack">
  Budget, Monterey Institute, parking among topics on agenda
</p>
<p>
  <i>The UCSC Academic Senate will <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/03may/A03may.htm">meet</a> at 2:30 p.m. on Friday, May 16, in the<br>
  Colleges Nine/Ten Multipurpose Room at the University Center. George Blumenthal, Senate chair, sent the following letter to members of the Academic Senate about the issues to be discussed:</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues,<br>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC budget problems got you down? Are you worried about ever being able to buy a place within a hundred miles of UCSC? Can't afford or find a parking place? Are you interested in the long term plans for campus growth? Want to know more about the potential of the colleges?<br>
</p>
<p>
  Your Senate colleagues have been working hard this year to grapple with these complexities. The reports in this CALL are the results of Senate Committees' research, analysis and careful consideration of these matters. These challenges are not likely to disappear in the near future. Reading these reports will help you be an informed participant in ongoing campus discussions.
</p>
<p>
  If you'd like to learn more about the new hot topic, our possible merger with the Monterey Institute of International Studies, the Chancellor will address MIIS in her remarks.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Come to the Senate meeting, tell us what you think and hear what your colleagues have to say. You'll not regret it.
</p>
<p>
  The meeting is in a new venue for the Senate, the Collegse Nine/Ten Multipurpose Room, which is downstairs at the University Center. A reception upstairs at the University Center immediate follows the meeting. I look forward to seeing you there.<br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-12/senate.html "Permalink to senate")
