---
layout: post
title: "Parking 
        lot closes to make way for Engineering Building"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/grassfire.02-08-19.224.jpg
    - caption: "Firefighters put out a fire on August 9 that quickly blackened a hillside near the UCSC Farm's Life Lab. Photo: Louise Donahue"
  -
    - file: ../art/driving.02-08-05.224.jpg
    - caption: "Driving simulators are used both to teach the safest driving techniques and to practice unusual maneuvers, such as a police chase. Photo: Louise Donahue"
---

More News

### Firefighters get help battling grass fire

Quick thinking by passersby kept a grass fire from getting out of hand along a campus bikepath on campus Friday, August 9.  

A bicyclist riding on the bikepath near the Farm's Life Lab reported a small grass fire Friday afternoon, and stopped at a nearby building to alert the UCSC Fire Department.  

In the meantime, the Farm's garden manager, Christof Bernau, also spotted the fire, and he and other staffers grabbed garden hoses and rushed to the scene, slowing the fire considerably.  

The heat wave had prompted Bernau, who usually doesn't leave work during lunch, to take a swim in the ocean during his lunch break. He discovered the fire as he was walking back to work.   

"We're very fortunate the people from the Farm were here," said fire captain Don Brookes. Brookes said the fire grew to about 70 yards by 10 yards in about five minutes. Firefighters quickly extinguished the blaze. Its cause was not determined.  

Fire chief Charles Hernandez said the fire served as a reminder for people to heed the "fire danger" signs posted on campus. Smokers should be sure to discard cigarettes in proper containers, and not throw them out of cars or onto campus grounds, he said. Campfires and bonfires are not permitted anywhere on campus, he noted, and those planning cookouts must contact the Fire Department to approve the locations and prevent unnecessary smoke investigation calls.

_Back to top_

House Hunters Hostel available

Students who have been admitted to UCSC and are looking for a place to live may take advantage of the University Town Center House Hunters Hostel in downtown Santa Cruz.

Costing $20 per night, double occupancy, the units include a refrigerator, microwave and range, but no oven. Students should bring a sleeping bag, pillow and towel. Check-in is between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. in Room 405. Those arriving in the evening should make prior arrangements via [e-mail][1] or by calling (831) 429-7100 during office hours.

Reservations are encouraged, and photo identification is required at check-in. There is a five-night maximum stay. The hostel is available through September 4.

_Back to top_

### UCSC hosting police training simulators

Police officers from UCSC and throughout Santa Cruz County are getting valuable training in handling situations ranging from police chases to armed robbers--all from the safety of two mobile training simulators.  

The simulator training, hosted by the UCSC Police Department and set up near police headquarters at H Barn, allows officers to spend half a day on driving techniques and half a day on scenarios potentially involving use of force.   

Funding for the simulators comes from the California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training, with the course work developed by the South Bay Regional Public Safety Training consortium. (UCSC Police sergeant Robert Jones is one of the instructors.) The sophisticated mobile units are the only ones in the state that go to where the officers are, saving departments considerable travel time.   

Efforts to make the experiences as realistic as possible are apparent, especially in the use-of-force simulator. Officers' "shots" from a computer-connected mock gun are tracked by computer to see if they hit the intended target. And if an officer is shot at by an on-screen suspect and fails to take cover, plastic pellets come flying out toward his or her ankles and feet as a not-so-gentle reminder. The training, which also includes lectures, began July 10 and will continue until August 28.

_Back to top_   

Fire Slug t-shirts go on sale

Sammy Slug has a new t-shirt, and it's available at the UCSC fire station. The navy blue Fire Slug t-shirts sport a logo created by fire captain Paul Babb, and are being sold to raise money for the UC Fire Fighters Association.

The 100-percent cotton shirts are available in small, medium, large, extra-large, and extra-extra-large. The XXL shirts sell for $18; the rest cost $17. Checks should be made payable to the "UC Fire Fighters Association."

Shirts are available from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., except during the lunch hour, Monday through Friday. Call (831) 459-2339 to arrange sales at other times.  
  
_Back to top_

Preparation work for the new UCSC Engineering Building has prompted the closing of Lot 139, the lot behind Baskin Engineering Building. The lot is expected to remain closed, with the contractor likely to break ground on the new building this month. New handicapped spaces are available for those who require them. There are also some spaces reserved for university and service vehicles. Others should park in the Core West Parking Structure or Lot 150, which is also known as the North Perimeter Lot. Guests to the campus may use pay station spaces at the parking structure._ [_Construction update story][2]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][3] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.][4]

_Back to top_

Draft on housing policies to be posted before fall public forum

The committee looking at policies for university-owned housing for faculty and staff plans to have a draft recommendation ready two weeks before the next public forum, tentatively scheduled for mid-September. That draft will be posted on the [Campus Welfare Committee web site.][5]

The Campus Welfare Committee is meeting throughout the summer and plans to make a recommendation in early October to John Simpson, campus provost and executive vice chancellor. Simpson had initially directed the committee to make a recommendation on housing by June 15, but the committee requested more time to gather information and receive input from the campus community, said Assistant Chancellor Leslie Sunell, the committee chair. A campus forum on housing was held May 20. Several suggestions for determining who should receive priority for housing were discussed.  

In August, the Campus Welfare Committee will receive the results of an independent survey of demand for university-sponsored housing among faculty and staff. The committee is now working on a concept paper to be used in further discussion with the campus community in the fall. ([See related Currents stories][6].)

_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][7]

[1]: mailto:lainee@garlic.com
[2]: ../../construction.html
[3]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[5]: http://planning.ucsc.edu/pac/cwc.html
[6]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-27/housing.html
[7]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/08-19/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
