---
layout: post
title: "More Campus News"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/cunningham_nick.150.jpg
    - caption: "UCSC senior Nick Cunningham won a tight singles match to help the Slugs to the semifinals. Photo: UCSC Athletics Dept."
  -
    - file: ../art/student_print_sale.200.jpg
    - caption: "Monster Invasion 2 by Bernie Sale"
---

### Student Print Sale Friday and Saturday

The Art Department will be holding the 28th Annual Student Print Sale on Friday, May 31, and** **Saturday, June 1, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Printmaking Studio, Room G-101, at Baskin Visual Arts. Due to the overwhelmingly positive response to previous years' sales, the second day was added. There will be free parking on Saturday.

Hundreds of original etchings, lithographs, woodcuts, and handmade books by students will be displayed. All work will be for sale, with proceeds benefiting the individual artists as well as the printmaking program at UCSC. This extraordinary display and sale of original prints is also a great opportunity to become acquainted with the professional quality of the printmaking program and studio facilities at UCSC. The event is free and open to the public. Come browse or buy (prices usually range between $5 and $50). For more information, call Veda Ozelle at the Printmaking Studio, (831) 459-3686.  
_Back to top_

###

### Tennis championships conclude at UCSC

The 2002 NCAA Division III Men's Tennis Championships, hosted by four-time champion UCSC, concluded on the East Field courts Wednesday with the singles final.  
  
Josh Lefkowitz of Williams College, who had lost in each of the past three years to the eventual champion, finally claimed the prize that had eluded him, beating Kevin Whipple of Gustavus Adolphus in three sets (6-3, 2-6, 6-1).  
  
In the team competition concluded Sunday (May 19), UCSC--which finished first in 1989 and three more times in the 1990s--took fourth, while Williams repeated as team champions. UCSC lost to Williams in an exciting semifinal match, 4-3.  
  
In the doubles championship, also concluded on Wednesday, John Cham-a-Koon and Ivan Yeh of Claremont-Mudd-Scripps defeated Kyle Harding and Jeff Keen of Kalamazoo (6-4, 6-2).

For complete tournament results, visit [GoSlugs.com.  
][1]_Back to top_

### UCSC cyclist takes national title

Ben Jacques-Maynes, a 23-year-old senior who was the sole qualifier from UCSC's cycling team, finished first at the National Collegiate Cycling Association's National Road Cycling Championships, held May 10-12 in Burlington, Vermont.  
_Back to top_

### Group tickets available for Shakespeare Santa Cruz performances

Reduced-price tickets for [Shakespeare Santa Cruz][2] are once again being offered to staff and faculty by Women at Work. Tickets, priced at $16 per performance, are available for the following three performances:

* July 26,_ The Merry Wives of Windsor,_ 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 2, _The Sea Gull,_ 8 p.m., Festival Glen
* August 16, _Coriolanus,_ 8 p.m., Theater Arts Mainstage

To order tickets, fill out the [request form][3] on the web or call Diana Sue Miller at (831) 459-2882. Orders must be submitted by noon on July 22.  
_Back to top_

### UC, nurses reach tentative agreement

After several months of negotiations, the University of California and the California Nurses Association reached a tentative agreement May 24 regarding a new three-year contract for UC's 8,000 nurses.  
  
On Wednesday, the university had presented the union with an offer designed to conclude negotiations. Among other things, it required that the union cancel its planned May 29 strike and drop its charges of unfair practices. While still preserving the university's ability to financially reward performance through lump-sum awards, the proposal also stipulated that UC would eliminate its use of merit pay for nurses, a key union issue. The tentative agreement is set for ratification June 3. [ Full text of UC press release][4]; [message from UCSC Vice Chancellor Tom Vani][5]  
_Back to top_

### The Outdoor Rental Center is having a surplus sale

Tents, surfboards, wet suits, booties, sleeping bags, and much more--all at great discount prices at the OPERS Outdoor Rental Center Surplus Sale on Thursday, May 30. Students get first crack from noon to 3 p.m. and must show current student ID. Staff and faculty may purchase items from 3 to 5 p.m. with current ID. First come, first serve, and all sales are final. For more information, call (831) 459-2800.  
_Back to top_

### The Alumni Association invites nominations for annual awards

Each year the UCSC Alumni Association invites the university community to submit applications for the association's Distinguished Teaching Award, Outstanding Staff Award, and Alumni Achievement Award. Recipients of the awards receive recognition and a $500 cash award at a luncheon in their honor. Each of these awards is explained in detail and a list of past recipients is provided on the [Alumni Association web site][6].

To make an award nomination, submit the [nomination form][7] with a statement (200-word minimum) describing your nominee's qualifications. The form may be submitted on the web or mailed to the UCSC Alumni Association, Carriage House, 1156 High St., Santa Cruz, CA 95064.  
  
The nomination deadline for 2002-03 awards is Friday, May 31. Questions? Call (800) 933-SLUG, or e-mail the association at [alumni@cats.ucsc.edu][8].  
_Back to top_

### Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][9]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][10] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][11]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page  
][12]
[1]: http://goslugs.com
[2]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer02/welcome.shtml
[3]: ticket_form.html
[4]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2002/may28art1.htm
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/messages/01-02/05-28.canceled.html
[6]: http://alumni.ucsc.edu/programs/awards/awardsindex.html
[7]: http://alumni.ucsc.edu/programs/awards/award_nomination.html
[8]: mailto:alumni@cats.ucsc.edu
[9]: ../../construction.html
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[11]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[12]: ../../index.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-27/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
