---
layout: post
title: "Governor, legislature authorize education bond measures"
author: Brad Hayward, UC Office of the President
post_id: 1103
images:
---

<p>
  Gov. Gray Davis and the California legislature have approved the placement of bond measures for public education facilities on the ballot in November 2002 and March 2004.
</p>Under the bill signed by the governor, AB 16, the 2002 bond measure would provide $13.05 billion for K-12 and higher education facilities over a two-year period. The 2004 measure would provide an additional $12.3 billion for that purpose over the following two years.<br>
<br>
The bond legislation also includes the acceleration of funding for a number of higher education facilities projects, including seven projects at the University of California, as part of a statewide economic stimulus package proposed by the governor in January. Lease-revenue bonds, which do not need voter approval, would fund the accelerated projects.<br>
<br>
Counting proceeds from both the general-obligation bonds and the lease-revenue bonds, the legislation will provide California public colleges and universities with $1.15 billion per year in facilities funding, for four years, if both bond measures win voter approval. UC campuses would receive $345 million per year to fund capital improvement projects at all UC campuses, including the new UC Merced campus.<br>
<br>
"The projects we have planned are critical to our ability to accommodate growing numbers of students, reinforce structures against earthquakes, and provide technologically up-to-date facilities for constantly evolving academic programs," said UC President Richard C. Atkinson.<br>
<br>
UC's current primary source of funding for facilities projects -- Proposition 1A, a bond measure approved by California voters in 1998 -- runs out this year.<br>
<br>
UC projects to be funded by the November 2002 and March 2004 general-obligation bond measures will be subject to approval by the governor and legislature each year.<br>
<br>
The UC projects that will be funded by lease-revenue bonds on an accelerated basis have already been approved and include the following:
<ul>
  <li>Engineering Building at UC Santa Cruz -- an engineering building providing research, classroom, and departmental space ($41.2 million).
  </li>
  <li>Veterinary Medicine 3A at UC Davis -- a teaching and research building needed to upgrade facilities for the School of Veterinary Medicine ($66.1 million).
  </li>
  <li>Natural Sciences Unit 2 at UC Irvine -- an interdisciplinary laboratory building for the Schools of Biological Sciences and Physical Sciences ($55.3 million).
  </li>
  <li>Site development and infrastructure at UC Merced ($16.4 million).
  </li>
  <li>Engineering Building Unit 2 at UC Riverside -- an engineering building providing space for teaching and research laboratories and departmental support ($35.7 million).
  </li>
  <li>Engineering Building Unit 3B at UC San Diego -- a facility providing new space for engineering, computer science, and related disciplines at Warren College ($37.4 million).
  </li>
  <li>Life Sciences Building at UC Santa Barbara -- a laboratory building providing modern instruction and research space for biological sciences programs ($26.9 million).
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/04-29/bond.html "Permalink to bond")
