---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1153
images:
---

<p>
  The <i>Riverside Press-Enterprise</i>'s coverage of changes in the 10 years since the Los Angeles riots included sociologist <b>Hiroshi Fukurai</b>'s insights about the jury selection process.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropology's <b>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez</b> contributed to a news story on the genetics of African pastoralism that appeared in the April 12 issue of <i>Science.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of ocean sciences <b>Mary Silver</b> was featured in a story on KPIX TV (Ch. 5, San Francisco and San Jose) about a bloom of toxic algae in southern California that is poisoning sea lions and other wildlife. Silver has been analyzing water samples from the area. An article on the same subject in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> quoted assistant professor of ocean sciences <b>Raphael Kudela,</b> who is also studying toxic algal blooms.
</p>
<p>
  An op-ed about youth written by sociology instructor <b>Mike Males</b> for the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> that also appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Edmonton Journal,</i> and other papers, triggered calls from KGO Radio and New Hampshire Public Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Cathy Sandeen,</b> dean of UCSC Extension, was quoted in an article in the <i>India Post</i> about the Bioinformatics Certificate Program and other programs offered by Extension.
</p>
<p>
  KSBW TV (Ch. 8, Salinas) covered a visit by wildlife biologist <b>Glenn Stewart</b> to Natural Bridges Elementary School in Santa Cruz. Stewart talked to students at the school about his work with the Predatory Bird Research Group, and showed them the peregrine falcon he raised from a chick. He gives presentations to schoolchildren throughout the area as part of the group's education and outreach efforts.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> was interviewed by the Associated Press for a story about rates of home ownership in California.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Nation'</i>s lengthy story about the abominable state of women's health care in prisons included the research findings of <b>Nancy Stoller</b> of community studies. . . . Also from community studies, <b>Paul Ortiz</b> spoke with the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the Reel Work May Day Labor Film Festival.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of astronomy and astrophysics <b>Garth Illingworth</b> was quoted in news stories in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> and the <i>Australian</i> about the first photos taken by a new camera on the Hubble Space Telescope. Illingworth is deputy leader of the camera's science team.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Olga Najera-Ramirez</b> fielded a call about Cinco de Mayo from the <i>Salinas Californian</i> and hosted a crew from Channel 48, the Spanish-language television station in San Jose.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../media_highlights.winter02.pdf">Summary of Making the News columns, Januany-March 2002</a><a href="../../index.html"></a>
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-13/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
