---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2301
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Wellman</b> of community studies was tapped by the <i>New York Times</i> for comment about President Bush's intervention in the labor conflict at West Coast ports.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Forrest Robinson</b>, professor of American studies, was interviewed on KSCO Radio during the national "Banned Books Week." Robinson has written, taught, and lectured on <i>Huckleberry Finn,</i> one of the most frequently banned books in American history.
</p>
<p>
  <i>USA Today</i> quoted psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> on the risk of describing the killer terrorizing the Washington, D.C., area as "cowardly," saying it's a "bit of a gamble" to hope that angering the assailant will prompt an ill-considered move that will aid law enforcement efforts.
</p>
<p>
  The work of <b>Alva Noe,</b> associate professor of philosophy, was cited in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine. Noe, along with psychologist Kevin O'Regan of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, argues for a "sensorimotor theory of vision," which the <i>New Scientist</i> article called "dramatically different from exiting theories of perception."
</p>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Dan Wirls</b> provided analysis for <i>Salon.com</i> of a recent speech by President Bush, in which Bush relaunched a "kindler, gentler" rationale for his administration's policy on Iraq.
</p>
<p>
  "Art of the Lega: Meaning and Metaphor in Central Africa," an exhibit curated by assistant professor of art history <b>Elisabeth Cameron,</b> was reviewed in the <i>Kansas City Star</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Pagan Time: An American Childhood,</i> by <b>Micah Perks</b>, assistant professor of literature, was reviewed in the <i>Santa Fe New Mexican.</i> Perks's memoir was described as "vibrantly written, amusing, at times astonishing" by the reviewer.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> did a retrospective on the contributions of graduates of the <b>Center for Agroecology</b>'s apprenticeship program, highlighting the accomplishments of several alumni. Pacific Grove-based KAZU Radio produced a feature about the apprenticeship in organic horticulture, too, and the station interviewed <b>Paul Ortiz</b> of community studies about his book of oral histories told by African Americans who had lived in the segregated South.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-21/news.html "Permalink to news")
