---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1127
images:
---

<p>
  An article about changes in Earth's magnetic field in the <i>Daily Telegraph</i> (London) quoted <b>Gary Glatzmaier,</b> professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  <i>New Scientist</i> magazine ran a story about research on the origins of modern mammals in Asia by graduate student <b>Gabriel Bowen</b> and associate professor of Earth sciences <b>Paul Koch.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Award-winning fiction writer and legal studies lecturer <b>Peter Orner</b> floated a witty proposal in the pages of the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> recently, suggesting a certain West Coast university--"hey, maybe one with a prestigious journalism department!"--establish an in-house awards program to rival the East Coast-oriented Pulitzer Prizes.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>David Cope</b> was quoted in the <i>Washington Times</i> on the relationship between music and mathematics in the work of Johann Sebastian Bach.
</p>
<p>
  Junior business major <b>Mark Ng</b> was interviewed by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> for a story on the fundraising efforts he is spearheading to purchase new playground equipment for the Granary Child Care Center.
</p>
<p>
  The world premiere of <i>Rituel ll,</i> a music and dance performance piece by composer and associate professor of music <b>Hi Kyung Kim,</b> was reviewed by the <i>Sacramento Bee.</i> The review noted that "The full house gave the hour-long performance long and loud applause."<br>
  <br>
  Professor of physics <b>Joel Primack</b> was quoted in a UPI wire story about space debris and the problems it poses for the space shuttle, the International Space Station, and satellites in low-Earth orbit.
</p>
<p>
  Research geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> article about tsunamis.<b><br>
  <br>
  Graham Pearson,</b> currently visiting UCSC as a Regents' Lecturer, was interviewed on KGO Radio about his work on biosecurity issues. Pearson served as director general of the United Kingdom Chemical and Biological Defense Establishment.
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
  </p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/05-06/makenews.html "Permalink to makenews")
