---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/ogawa_rodney.140.jpg
    - caption: "Rodney Ogawa Photo: Jennifer McNulty"
  -
    - file: ../art/weise_ann_marie.bw.140.jpg
    - caption: "Ann-Marie Wiese Photo: Jon Kersey"
---

New Faculty

Rodney Ogawa  
Professor of Education

A professor of education, Rodney Ogawa specializes in organizational theory. He studies the impact of the social environment on school structures, at the classroom, school, and district level. For more than 20 years, he has examined the impacts of educational reform on performance, conducting research on leadership within school organizations that has encompassed principals, superintendents, teachers, parents, and students. Ogawa comes to UCSC from UC Riverside, where he was on the faculty for 10 years, most recently as associate dean in the School of Education. He spent 12 years on the faculty at the University of Utah. Ogawa earned his B.A. in history from UCLA, his M.A. in education from Occidental College, and his Ph.D. in educational administration from Ohio State University, after which he was a postdoctoral trainee in the Organizations Research Training Program at Stanford University.

Ann-Marie Wiese  
Assistant Professor of Education  

Ann-Marie Wiese specializes in educational policy issues as they relate to language-minority students. She earned her B.A. in psychology from UCSC, where she also earned a preliminary teaching credential. Wiese taught first and second grade as a bilingual teacher in Oregon before earning her M.A. and Ph.D. in education from UC Berkeley. Her dissertation, an ethnographic study of three bilingual teachers and how they planned instruction for English language learners in light of Proposition 227 and federal education policy, won second place in the dissertation competition sponsored by the National Association for Bilingual Education.

  
  

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/10-21/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
