---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/manduchi_roberto.140.jpg
    - caption: "Roberto Manduchi Photo: Tim Stephens"
  -
    - file: ../art/sadjadpour_hamid.140.jpg
    - caption: "Hamid Sadjadpour Photo: Tim Stephens"
---

New Faculty

**Roberto Manduchi**  
Assistant Professor of Computer Engineering

Roberto Manduchi develops algorithms for the computer analysis of images and other sensor information (e.g., multispectral and range data). He is interested in the statistical theory of segmentation, classification, and prioritization, and in applications to robotics, telecommunications, and sensor networks. Manduchi earned a "Laurea" degree in electronic engineering and a "Dottorato di Ricerca" in electrical engineering from the University of Padova, Italy. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was a researcher at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena and an adjunct assistant professor of computer science at the University of Southern California.  

**Hamid Sadjadpour**  
Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering

Hamid Sadjadpour works on communications and signal processing systems. His research interests include coding theory, equalization techniques, wireless communications, communication theory, and broadband communications with applications in DSL modems. His past projects include the design of communication systems for satellite applications and algorithms for next-generation DSL modems. Sadjadpour earned B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from Sharif University of Technology in Tehran, Iran, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Southern California. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was a principal technical staff member with AT&T Research Labs.

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/07-22/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
