---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

History of Consciousness professor **Barbara Epstein** was quoted in _New Statesman_ about the global justice movement.

Psychology's **Craig Haney** appeared twice in the _Los Angeles Times_ recently, first in a story about an inmate hunger strike at Pelican Bay State Prison and then in a _Los Angeles Times Magazine_ story about prison rape.

Professor of physics **Bruce Schumm** was interviewed on KSCO Radio about a new particle collider being planned for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC).   

Sociologist **Dane Archer** was quoted in the _Financial Times_ about the murder rate in the United States.

Astrobiologist **David Deamer,** a research professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was quoted in an article about extraterrestrial life in the _Philadelphia Inquirer._ The _Inquirer_ story also ran in the _San Jose Mercury News._   

**Steven Vogt,** professor of astronomy, was interviewed by the syndicated radio program _Earth and Sky_ for a story about the search for new planets.

The_ San Jose Mercury News_ tapped **Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies for its four-day series on the "shadow economy" of Silicon Valley, in which the working poor run side businesses to make ends meet.

**Sue Carter,** associate professor of physics, and **Jin Zhang,** associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, were featured in an article about solar energy research in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._ Carter was also quoted in a related story in the _Sentinel_ business section.

**Rob Fairli**e of economics was quoted in _Inc._ magazine and contributed to a BBC/PBS four-part television series on black America, discussing black business ownership.

Theater arts instructor **Patty Gallagher** contributed comments analyzing circus as an art form to a _San Jose Mercur_y article about Cirque du Soleil.

**Francisco Hernandez** was quoted in a Washington _Internet Daily_ story about the availability of online test preparation.  

**Angela Davis,** professor of history of consciousness, was featured in a _Kansas City Star_ article about a talk she gave at the University of Missouri regarding the prison system.  

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-18/news.html "Permalink to news")
