---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rangell._paul.200%20.jpg
    - caption: 
---

More News

Art lecturer Paul Rangell named 2003 Distinguished Artist of the Year

Art lecturer Paul Rangell has been named 2003 Distinguished Artist of the Year by the [Santa Cruz Art League][1]. The award is given to artists who have made significant contributions to the art community in their field. Rangell is being honored with an exhibition in the Art League's gallery from October 25 through November 23, with a reception scheduled for Sunday, November 2, from 3 to 5 p.m. Rangell will also give an Artists' Presentation on November 12, at 7 p.m. All events are free and open to the public.   

Rangell has developed and expanded the printmaking program at UCSC where he has served as an instructor for the past two decades. "I am truly proud of our program, of the expressive quality and complexity of the work produced, and of the continued contributions in the field that my students find post graduation," he noted in a recent interview.  

A UCSC graduate, Rangell studied printmaking with Kathryn Metz and William Everson. After attending the Tamarind Lithography Institute in New Mexico, he worked for four years as master printer before returning to Santa Cruz to accept a teaching position at UCSC. Rangell has exhibited in Paris, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Albuquerque, and Seattle. His work can also be found in private collections throughout the country.   
top

Planned forum on budget cuts' impact canceled

A forum planned for November 4 by the Regents Scholars Association of Santa Cruz to discuss the academic future of the university in light of statewide cuts to educational funding has been canceled.  
top

Latin American and Latino studies lecturer gives keynote speech at citizenship conference

Susanne Jonas, lecturer in Latin American and Latino studies, delivered the keynote speech during a recent conference on "Educational Democracy, Citizenship, and the New Immmigration" that was sponsored by the Center on Democracy in a Multiracial Society at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Jonas's speech was entitled, "Immigrant Rights and Legalization Strategies in the Shadow of the National Security State: Responses to Domestic Pre-emptive Strikes."  
top

New reduced price for Interviewing Workshop

Hiring new staff and faculty is one of the most critical activities managers and leaders make on behalf of the university, yet few receive training beyond how to avoid legal challenges. For the past two years, Business and Administrative Services (BAS) has offered competency-based behavioral interviewing workshops to the campus to meet this need. While participants have been enthusiastic about the usefullness of the workshop, the $200 cost (which covers the cost of the training manuals) has been a barrier to many units.  

Although campus hiring activity has slowed considerably, there are still critical hiring decisions being made. "Now more than ever," says Susan Willats, the trainer for Interviewing Today's Workforce(r), "hiring committees need to know how to ask the right questions. The decisions they make today could impact their units for years to come."   

In an effort to provide competency-based behavioral interviewing techniques to as wide an audience as possible, BAS is temporarily subsidizing the cost of Interviewing Today's Workforce(r). The six-hour workshop, which is being offered on Friday, December 12, is now available for $100. [(Register online)][2] For more information, contact Susan Willats at (831) 459-3759.  
top   

Knit, crochet, sew, weave: Handiwork get-together at the Women's Center October 27

Students, staff, and faculty are invited to come to the Women's Center for an afternoon of knitting, sewing, weaving, and crocheting on Monday, October 27, from 4 to 6 p.m.

Bring your craft and your knowledge to share with the group. For more information, call the Women's Center at (831) 459-2072.   
top

Construction update

Currents provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][3]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][4] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][5]top  

[Return to Front Page][6]  

[1]: http://www.scal.org
[2]: http://bas.ucsc.edu/events
[3]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[6]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-27/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
