---
layout: post
title: "newfac"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/mccarthy_matthew.140.jpg
    - caption: "Matthew McCarthy Photo: Tim Stephens"
  -
    - file: ../art/gwyn_melissa.140.jpg
    - caption: "Melissa Gwyn"
---

New Faculty

Melissa Gwyn  
Assistant Professor of Art  

Melissa Gwyn's paintings combine the thick paint of abstract expressionism with the delicate and intricate detail of Dutch 17th-century still lifes. She earned her M.F.A. in painting at Yale University in 1989 and has been a visiting artist at Ohio State University (where she had received her B.A. in painting), the Pratt Institute in New York City, and Vassar College in New York. She received a grant from the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts in 2000 and has been reviewed in _Artforum, Art News,_ the _New York Times_, and the _Village Voice._ She has exhibited her work in a number of solo and selected group shows in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco. Gwyn came to UCSC from the San Francisco Art Institute, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in painting.

Matthew McCarthy  
Assistant Professor of Ocean Sciences

Matthew McCarthy studies marine chemistry and biochemistry. He is particularly interested in understanding the origin and nature of dissolved organic matter in the oceans. McCarthy earned a B.S. degree in chemistry and biochemistry from UC San Diego and a Ph.D. in oceanography from the University of Washington. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was on the research faculty of the University of Hawaii, with a joint appointment at the Carnegie Institution of Washington.

[Recent profiles of new faculty][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/faculty_profiles.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-27/newfac.html "Permalink to newfac")
