---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3198
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  More News
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="benefits" id="benefits"></a>November is Benefits Open Enrollment month
</p>
<p>
  The 2004 Benefits Open Enrollment period began November 1 and concludes at midnight on November 30. All changes to benefit plans will be made on the web this year at the <a href="http://atyourservice.ucop.edu/">UC At Your Service</a> web site.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Medical plan premiums have increased significantly this year, although co-pays and deductibles remain the same. Detailed open enrollment information, including plan costs, is available at <a href="http://atyourservice.ucop.edu/employees/policies/labor_relations/news_events/plan_info.html">atyourservice.ucop.edu/</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  The annual Benefits Fair will be held on Wednesday, November 19, from noon to 3 p.m. in the lobby of the Baskin Engineering Building.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="development" id="development"></a><b><font color="#003399">Workshop on Long Range Development Plan is Wednesday</font></b>
</p>
<p>
  UC Santa Cruz is beginning a multiyear effort to update its Long Range Development Plan (LRDP), a revision expected to guide the campus's physical development through the year 2020. The first in what is expected to be a series of public workshops on the LRDP process will be held on the evening of Wednesday, November 5.<br>
  <br>
  The workshop will take place from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sierra and Dawn Rooms at the UCSC Inn, at 611 Ocean Street in Santa Cruz.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="kucinich" id="kucinich"></a>Presidential hopeful Kucinich to be at campus event
</p>
<p>
  UCSC will host Democratic presidential candidate Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio), in the first of a series of youth-centered events on University campuses throughout California.
</p>
<p>
  The event, called the DemoCreation Project, will begin with a student panel at 2 p.m. and be followed by music from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Sunday, November 9, in the colleges Nine and Ten Stage Room. Confirmed musical guests include SambaDa, Alma Melodiosa, Wisdom and Goddess of Funk.
</p>
<p>
  The DemoCreation Project will include a mediated panel of young leaders. Panelists will be allowed full access to, and interaction with, the candidate. The panel will represent campuses throughout northern California, as well as organizations including the Stanford Peace Discussion Group to the Davis College Republicans. The event is free.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="workshop" id="workshop"></a>Professional development workshop slated for November 6
</p>
<p>
  Author and executive career coach Michele Kremen Bolton will speak at a professional development workshop titled "Meeting Work-Life Challenges," November 6, from 11:30 to 1 p.m. in the Fireside Lounge of UCSC's Graduate Student Commons. Bolton is a principal partner of Executive Edge of Silicon Valley, and author of <i>The Third Shift,</i> a best-selling book about issues facing women in their careers. She is also a former management professor and cofounder of Exceptional Women Executives, a San Jose group.
</p>
<p>
  As an executive coach and career development specialist, Bolton works extensively with both women and men in high-technology businesses and related fields. Her clients have included employees of Sun Microsystems, Nike, Hewlett-Packard, 3-Com, Applied Materials, the Gap, and others. An insightful speaker, Bolton draws on good humor and her varied experiences as a successful professional woman, wife, and mother. Come join her in dialogue, exercises, and discussion with coworkers. The workshop is free and everyone is welcome, but reservations are requested as space is limited.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The workshop is sponsored by UCSC Career Center Graduate Advising, the UCSC Women's Center, the Graduate Student Association, and Staff HR Training &amp; Development. For more information or to RSVP, contact Roberta Valdez at (831) 459-2169 or <a href="mailto:women@ucsc.edu">women@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="campaign" id="campaign"></a>United Way campaign under way through November 14
</p>
<p>
  During the next two weeks, UCSC staff and faculty have the opportunity to sign on to the United Way campus campaign, "Community Matters." UCSC has been involved in the United Way campaign since 1965, and in the last five years campus members have pledged over $500,000.
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://www.unitedwaysc.org/">United Way of Santa Cruz County</a> is a nonprofit organization that funds over 30 local nonprofit health and human care programs. All monies donated in Santa Cruz County stay in Santa Cruz County to support local agencies. You can direct your donation to a designated United Way agency or you can donate to any qualifying nonprofit organization. <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/united-way/Served.html">(List of organizations served by United Way of Santa Cruz County)</a> You can choose a monthly payroll deduction or send a check. For more information or to download a pledge form, go to the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/united-way/">Community Matters</a> web site.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a><br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="forum" id="forum"></a>Forum on the budget process November 5
</p>
<p>
  The Staff Advisory Board is sponsoring a series of forums for campus staff focused on the budget process. The first forum will be held on November 5 from 10 to 11 a.m. in the Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D. Human resources and the campus's time-and-attendance systems will be the topics.
</p>
<p>
  There will be forums on different budget-related topics on December 3 and January 7 at the same location.
</p>
<p>
  For more information, contact Rachel Huff with the Staff Advisory Board at <a href="mailto:rhuff@ucsc.edu">rhuff@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="green" id="green"></a>UCSC and City of Santa Cruz plan 'green' partnership
</p>
<p>
  The City of Santa Cruz and UC Santa Cruz are planning a new partnership to make a greener community. By combining the ideas and energies of the university with the planning and representative powers of the city, the Green Enterprise Initiative hopes to find new strategic opportunities for sustainable business in the Santa Cruz area.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A first outcome of this partnership is a talk by David Wallace on Friday November 7, at the Museum of Art and History. Wallace, an adviser to the UN Industrial Development Organization and to the Chinese government, will speak on the topic "Sustainable Industrialization: How the Third World and Technological Innovation Can Help Overcome Global Environmental Challenges."<br>
  <br>
  Wallace's ideas are counterintuitive. He thinks we should look for the emergence of an effective response to the global environmental challenge in the activism of Third World green movements, the regulatory responses of their governments, and, most surprisingly, in the co-option, from multinational corporations, of technological innovation and management expertise. Wallace's ideas are set out in his book <i><a href="http://www.earthscan.co.uk/asp/bookdetails.asp?key=1911">Sustainable Industrialization,</a></i> published by Earthscan, the Brookings Institution, and the Royal Institute of International Affairs.<br>
</p>
<p>
  This event is free and open to the public. For more information, contact Ben Crow at <a href="mailto:bencrow@ucsc.edu">bencrow@ucsc.edu</a><br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="freedom" id="freedom"></a>Free campus talk on freedom to write
</p>
<p>
  Larry Siems, director of Freedom to Write for American PEN, will present a free public lecture on Tuesday, November 4, at 6 p.m. in Kresge 321. Siems will talk about his work advocating for threatened and imprisoned writers internationally. He will also address the new U.S. Patriot Act and its domestic implications for writers and readers. Siems is a poet and nonfiction writer, focusing on Latin America. This event is cosponsored by Creative Writing and the Friends of the UCSC Library. For more information, contact<br>
  Cole Akers at <a href="mailto:cw@ucsc.edu">cw@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#benefits">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <font color="#990000"><a name="canceled" id="canceled"></a><font color="#003399">Planned student forum canceled</font></font>
</p>
<p>
  A forum planned for November 4 by the Regents Scholars Association of Santa Cruz to discuss the academic future of the university in light of statewide cuts to educational funding has been canceled.<br>
  <a href="#art">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="construction" id="construction"></a>Construction update
</p>
<p>
  Currents provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.<br></a><a href="#benefits">top</a><br>
  <br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-08/CURRENTS%20ONLINE/03-04/11-03/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
