---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

**Erika Zavaleta** of environmental studies has received media attention for her study on the effects of global warming on grassland ecosystems, conducted while she was a doctoral student at Stanford. Reports appeared in _Life Science Weekly, Science Letter,_ and elsewhere.

Professor of art history **Catherine Soussloff** was featured on Chicago Public Radio's syndicated talk-show program, _Odyssey,_ speaking about her book,_ The Absolute Artist: The Historiography of a Concept._  

Physics professor **Bruce Rosenblum** was quoted in an article about the Mystery Spot in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._

_The St. Petersburg Times_ tapped **Michael Brown** of politics for comment on the recall of Gov. Gray Davis.

**Gary Griggs,** director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about renewed funding for UCSC's Center for Integrated Marine Technologies. Griggs also discussed the center's research on the Monterey Bay ecosystem on the _Talk of the Bay _program on KUSP Radio.

_The Santa Cruz Sentinel_ reported that history professor** Edmund Burke III,** psychology professor **Barbara Rogoff,** and literature professor **Helene Moglen** were awarded research funds and appointments as presidential chairs by Chancellor **M.R.C. Greenwood.**  

_Beyond Superwoman,_ the new book coauthored by women's studies lecturer **Peggy Downes Baskin,** was reviewed in the Salinas _Californian._  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran an article featuring music department lecturer **Barry Green** and his new book, _The Mastery of Music. _

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-01/news.html "Permalink to news")
