---
layout: post
title: "Chimp genome debuts on UCSC Genome Browser"
author: Tim Stephens
post_id: 3248
images:
---

<p>
  The National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) announced last week the completion of the first draft assembly of the chimpanzee genome sequence, and computer-generated alignments of the draft chimp sequence with the human genome sequence are now available to researchers on the <a href="http://genome.ucsc.edu">UCSC Genome Browser.</a>
</p>
<p>
  The chimpanzee (<i>Pan troglodytes</i>) is the most closely related species to humans. UCSC researchers David Haussler, a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator and director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering (CBSE), and Jim Kent, a CBSE research scientist, are part of an international team of scientists who are comparing the chimp and human genome sequences for insights into human genetics and evolution.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "We are just starting to do the comparative analysis of the chimp and human genomes," Haussler said. "This is an exciting time for many scientists around the world."<br>
</p>
<p>
  Comparative analysis of the human and chimp genomes can reveal unique types of information impossible to obtain from comparing the human genome with the genomes of other animals less closely related. The evolutionary perspective may prove especially helpful in understanding disease susceptibility. For example, chimpanzees do not suffer from some of the diseases that strike humans, such as malaria. A comparison of the genes involved in disease susceptibility may reveal the reasons for this species barrier, thereby suggesting new pathways for prevention of human disease.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The alignment of corresponding sections of the two genomes is the first step in this analysis. Kent and researchers at Pennsylvania State University developed the software programs used to generate the alignments. Kent performed the alignments in collaboration with researchers at Washington University in St. Louis and the Broad Institute at MIT and Harvard University. Other members of the UCSC team who contributed to the release of these alignments in the Genome Browser are Kate Rosenbloom, Heather Trumbower, and Donna Karolchik.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The chimpanzee genome sequence was assembled by NHGRI-funded teams led by Eric Lander at the Broad Institute (MIT/Harvard) and Richard K. Wilson at Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis. The analysis of the genome is being led by researchers at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington University in St. Louis, and the Broad Institute (MIT/Harvard).<br>
  <br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-15/chimp.html "Permalink to chimp")
