---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1746
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Hydrogeologist <b>Andrew Fisher</b> was interviewed for a story about seawater intrusion in Pajaro Valley that aired on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Valentine's Day came just in time for a story about research on romantic love that appeared in the <i>Toronto Star</i> and <i>Newsday.</i> The article mentioned psychology's <b>Steve Wright,</b> who is embarking on a study of the effects of love and friendship between people who belong to different social groups.
</p>
<p>
  The New Orleans <i>Times-Picayune</i> ran an article about history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> and her critique of the U.S. prison system.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> turned to physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> for expert commentary in a story about space debris, NASA's decision to slash the budget of its unit that studies space debris, and the possibility that a collision with space junk played a role in the destruction of the space shuttle <i>Columbia.</i> The <i>Inquirer</i> story also ran in other Knight-Ridder newspapers, including the <i>Miami Herald.</i> Primack was also quoted in a similar story in <i>Newsday.</i> Primack's concerns about the hazards of space debris were featured last year in an article in the <i>Wall Street Journal.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway</b> appeared on the Discovery Channel's <i>New Detectives</i> program about forensic science.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> published an article about an online exhibition of nine new Internet-based artworks featuring assistant professor of film and digital media <b>Warren Sack,</b> who explained how his exhibit argues against the Internet's utopian promise.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Steve Kang,</b> dean of the Baskin School of Engineering, was quoted in the <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal</i> in a story about job prospects for engineers. Kang also wrote a commentary for the <i>Journal</i> on the goals of the Silicon Valley Engineering Council, of which he is president.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Paul Ortiz</b> of community studies was profiled in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> as part of its coverage of the antiwar resolution Ortiz had put before the Academic Senate. Ortiz was also quoted in a <i>Sentinel</i> story about street theater as a form of democratic expression.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> cited professor of women's studies <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> and ran a photo of her in an article about the antiwar movement.
</p>
<p>
  Research on links between ocean currents and rockfish populations by oceanographer <b>Margaret McManus</b> and her colleagues in the Partnership for Interdisciplinary Studies of Coastal Oceans (PISCO) was featured in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle,</i> the <i>Oregonian,</i> and <i>Natur</i>e and <i>New Scientist</i> magazines.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about assistant professor of literature <b>Jody Greene</b> linking Santa Cruz to the first-ever international theater event for peace by staging a local reading of the Greek antiwar comedy, <i>Lysistrata.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the New Teacher Center was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the risk of layoff facing some Silicon Valley new teachers. <b>Moir</b> was also tapped by the <i>Times Educational Supplement</i> for comment on the wave of professionals making career changes and becoming teachers in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published an extensive full-page profile of theater arts assistant professor <b>Alma Martinez.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The St. Louis <i>Post-Dispatch</i> ran a story in its travel section about the Seymour Marine Discovery Center. The center's director <b>Julie Barrett Heffington</b> was quoted in the story.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC professor of American studies <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in the <i>Sacramento Bee</i> about cultural scholar Michael Eric Dyson's new book, <i>Why I Love Black Women.</i><br>
  <br>
  Political scientists <b>Ronnie Gruhn</b> and <b>Ronnie Lipschutz</b> joined historian <b>Peter Kenez</b> for a panel discussion on KUSP Radio about the U.S. conflict with Iraq.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> featured an article about award-winning author and journalist Barbara Ehrenreich, who presented a free public lecture as the first distinguished visitor sponsored by the new <b>Institute for Advanced Feminist Research</b> at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-03/news.html">February 3, 2003, "UCSC in the News" column</a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-17/news.html">February 17, 2003, "UCSC in the News" column</a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Monthly summaries of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-24/news.html "Permalink to news")
