---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/abbott_deb.150.jpg
    - caption: "Deb Abbott Photo: Don Harris"
---

Awards and Honors

GLBT Resource Center director Deb Abbott honored twice for her work

Deb Abbott, local activist, UCSC alumna, and director of the campus Gay, Lesbian, Bi, Trans Resource Center has been chosen by Assemblyman John Laird as "Woman of the Year" in the 27th Assembly District. See [press release][1] from Laird's office.  

Abbott has been a community activist for many years, working on behalf of women; children; people with disabilities; and gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people. She was an early member of the Santa Cruz Women's Health Collective; the founding director of WomenCARE, an organization offering supportive services to women with cancer; and the founding director of the UCSC GLBT Resource Center. She is also a psychotherapist, teacher, and published writer.  

Every year Assemblymembers in the state select one woman from their district who has contributed significantly to their community to be "Woman of the Year" from that district. This year's winners are being honored at a special session of the Assembly and a luncheon in the State Capitol today. The program, in its 17th year, is sponsored by the California Legislative Women's Caucus.  

In addition, Abbott will be honored for her community activism by the Bay Area Municipal Elections Committee (BAYMEC), a four-county lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender political action group. The award will be presented at BAYMEC's annual dinner at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Monterey on April 26.

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://democrats.assembly.ca.gov/members/a27/press/a272003003.htm
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/03-24/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
