---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

The _DOE News, _a publication of the U.S. Department of Energy,** **reported on the formation of a new high-level task force on the Future of Science Programs at the Department of Energy; **Chancellor Greenwood** is among those chosen to serve on the task force, which will be chaired by MIT president Charles M. Vest.

History professor **Dana Frank** was quoted in a _Charlotte Observer_ story about residents protesting a possible Wal-Mart store in their neighborhood.

Kresge provost and journalism lecturer **Conn Hallinan** had an article published in the _International Herald Tribune_ about U.S.policy on foreign ai .   

**Sam Hedgpeth,** assistant dean of engineering, was interviewed on KSCO Radio quoted in a story in the_ Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about a new agreement between the engineering school and Korea Telecom that will bring some of the company's managers to study at UCSC.   

Professor of chemistry and biochemistry **Jin Zhang** was interviewed on KSCO Radio about his research on the electronic dynamics of gold nanoparticles.

Literature professor **Carla Freccero** was quoted extensively in an online BBC News article about Marvel Comics' new gay comic book character.   

Seismologist **Susan Schwartz** was interviewed on local television stations KION and KCBA about a minor earthquake (4.3 on the Richter scale) near Hollister last week.   

**Russell Flegal,** professor of environmental toxicology, was interviewed by Earthwatch Radio about his findings on airborne mercury pollution. Flegal and graduate student **Douglas Steding** were also quoted in a story about their findings in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._  

The _Mid-County Post_ ran a story about the new Center for Integrated Marine Technologies led by UCSC. **Margaret McManus,** assistant professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in the story.  

Astronomer** Greg Laughlin** was quoted in a _Christian Science Monitor_ story about his research project in which advanced amateur astronomers are being enlisted to help look for planets beyond the solar system. Laughlin was also quoted in a _New Scientist_ magazine story about how many Earthlike planets might exist in our galaxy.  

Professor of physics **Joel Primack** and his wife, Nancy Abrams, were profiled in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about their efforts to make it easier for people to understand what scientists have learned about the cosmos.

Library development director **Margaret Gordon** and Special Collections head **Rita Bottoms** were cited in _San Jose Mercury, Contra Costa Times,_ and_ Santa Cruz Sentinel_ articles about photographer Pirkle Jones's $1 million donation of photos to UCSC.   

An article about adaptive optics in the _Milwaukee Journal Sentinel_ featured extensive quotes from an interview with **Claire Max,** professor of astronomy and astrophysics and associate director of the Center for Adaptive Optics.   

Astronomer **Stephen Thorsett** was quoted in an article in the _Washington Post_ about a new NASA satellite to study supernovae.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran an article about a new book, _Lack of Character: Personality and Moral Behavior,_ by associate professor of philosophy** John Doris**.  

A _Metro Santa Cruz_ column lauded the new photo book _Santa Cruz, California_, by UCSC librarians **Sheila O'Hare** and **Irene Berry.**

[Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-13/news.html "Permalink to news")
