---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Astrophysicist **Stan Woosley** was featured in news coverage of a groundbreaking discovery by Woosley and others linking gamma-ray bursts and supernovas. Media coverage included stories in the _New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Orange County Register, International Herald Tribune,_ and various online science news sites.

The _San Francisco Chronicle_ noted the participation of **Lewis Watts,** assistant professor of art, in "Reflections in Black," the first exhibit exploring the range of work by black photographers in America from 1840 to the present. Coordinated by the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, the collection of more than 300 images opened at three Oakland museums. The _Contra Costa Times_ also featured comments by Watts on the nationally touring exhibition.  

The _New York Times_ ran an item about research by geophysicists **Steven Ward** and **Erik Asphaug** on the tsunami that would be generated by an asteroid impact in the Atlantic Ocean.   

American studies professor **Tricia Rose** was quoted in _Essence_ magazine about the release of her new book, _Longing to Tell: Black Women Talk About Sexuality and Intimacy._

_New Scientist_ magazine ran an article about research by **Barry Sinervo,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, on the mating strategies of different color morphs of side-blotched lizards and the evolution of cooperation between males of one color morph.

Film and Digital Media Department chair **Chip Lord** was quoted in a _Los Angeles Times_ article marking the death of avant garde architect/designer Doug Michels. Lord and Michels cofounded the Ant Farm in 1968, a San Francisco-based collective named because of its "underground" thinking about architecture. They created the renowned public art piece, _Cadillac Ranch,_ that later inspired the Bruce Springsteen song of the same name.  

Plant physiologist **Lincoln Taiz** was quoted in a U.P.I. wire story about new findings regarding proteins that control plant growth.

American literature professor **Paul Skenazy** reviewed the new summer crop of detective fiction for the _Washington Post._

Professor of computer science **Darrell Long** and graduate student **Lawrence You** were quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentine_l story about their "Deep Store" project to develop improved data-storage solutions.

McHenry Library bibliographer **Paul Machlis** and music lecturer/voice instructor **Brian Staufenbiel** were cited in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about the library's acquisition of a new teaching resource, _Opera Practice Perfect_\--a comprehensive audio catalog of 209 CDs that allows singers to practice their parts without live accompaniment.   

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a long profile of **Jim Kent,** research scientist in the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, covering his involvement in the Human Genome Project and his ongoing work in bioinformatics and genomics.   

**David Keenan,** a lecturer in Chinese, was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ article about the importance of learning the language to compete in the global business world.

Environmental toxicology graduate student **Douglas Steding** was quoted in an article in the _Denver Post_ about air pollution from Asia crossing the Pacific Ocean to the United States.   

_Dance Magazine_ noted that **Ruth Solomon,** professor emerita of theater arts/dance, was presented with the 2003 Heritage Award--the highest honor bestowed by the National Dance Association. Solomon was director of the UCSC dance program, which she established in 1970, until her retirement in 1995.

The _New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle,_ and _San Jose Mercury News_ noted the passing of **Victor Perera,** a former UCSC lecturer in literature, writing, and journalism from 1972 to 1979. A memoirist, journalist, and novelist, Perera often wrote about the cultures of Sephardic Jews and the Maya Indians.  

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-07/news.html "Permalink to news")
