---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/talamantes_frank.140.jpg
    - caption: "Frank Talamantes Titangos Photography Studio"
---

Awards and Honors

Theater arts lecturer Gregory Fritsch voted _Good Times_ 'Best Professor'

Gregory Fritsch, lecturer in theater arts (drama) and a fellow of Porter College, was voted "Best Professor" in this year's _Good Times_ Best Of section, in the professionals category. Fritsch is a two-time recipient of UCSC awards for excellence in teaching.  
_back to top_

Francisco Hernandez named to national board for online learning  
  
Francisco Hernandez, vice chancellor for student affairs and an early champion of virtual schooling, has been named to the board of directors of a new national council for online K-12 education.  

Hernandez is executive director of the University of California's College Preparatory Initiative (UCCP), which offers online advanced placement and honors courses to high school students. The UCCP was established three years ago to increase opportunities for students from school districts that have "underdeveloped college preparatory curricula."   

With funding from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the North American Council for Online Learning (NACOL) was formed in response to the growth in online K-12 learning and teaching initiatives. NACOL, in collaboration with the Western Cooperative for Educational Telecommunications (WCET), will focus on providing high-quality online teaching and will support expanded research in the field.  

Hernandez is among the pioneers of online K-12 education selected to join the board of directors, which met April 15-16 to develop a strategic plan and begin the process of hiring an executive director.  

"NACOL will provide a national forum for online learning, and I am pleased to participate," said Hernandez, who developed UCCP to "level the playing field" for students from high schools that offer few, if any, AP courses. UCCP uses a combination of Internet, CD-ROM technology, and textbooks to offer its courses.  

UCCP this year broadened its services to offer AP exam review in 14 subject areas and free online SAT and ACT test preparation to all California students. UCCP also supports teachers by hosting online teaching and learning institutes in the summer.   

"It makes sense for the university to invest in today's high school students. They are tomorrow's university students," said Hernandez. "The university has the expertise to help develop virtual schooling. Our faculty and staff are involved with the development, delivery, and evaluation of online learning. It's a smart partnership."  
_Back to top_

Historian Bruce Levine to use NEH grant to study a Confederate policy that would have armed slaves

Professor of history Bruce Levine has been awarded a summer research grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for his project "Confederate Emancipation? Southern Plans to Free Slaves During the Civil War."   

Most historians today hold that the Civil War's central cause was slavery and that the Confederacy's central purpose was to preserve human bondage. But a surprising chapter in southern history suggests a different analysis. Particularly during the last six months of the Confederacy's existence, its leaders and journalists debated whether to arm slaves to fight against Union troops and to reward those who agreed to do so with their freedom. By the war's end, a version of this proposal had, in fact, become official Confederate policy. Levine's research attempts to clarify the meaning of both this startling policy and the debates it provoked for the history of the U.S. South, the Civil War, and postwar relations between whites and blacks.  
_Back to top_

Vice Provost Talamantes appointed to national advisory council  

Frank Talamantes, professor of molecular, cell, and developmental biology and vice provost and dean of graduate studies, has been appointed to serve on the National Advisory Environmental Health Sciences Council.  

The council, with 18 members appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, advises the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). Of the 18 appointed members, 12 are selected from among the leading representatives of the health-science disciplines, especially in the areas of toxicology, pharmacology, epidemiology, biochemistry, public health, and behavioral and social sciences. Additional members represent the fields of public policy, law, health policy, economics, and environmental justice.  

Talamantes, a leading endocrinologist, has received many awards and honors for his pioneering work on hormones and hormone receptors. The term for his appointment to the advisory council will end in November 2006.  
_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-05/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
