---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3103
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page story profiling University Relations vice chancellor <b>Ron Suduiko</b> and the campus's fundraising success this past year; <b>Alison Galloway,</b> chair of the Academic Senate, was also quoted in the story.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Wellman</b> of community studies was quoted in an Associated Press story about Proposition 54.
</p>
<p>
  Faculty in marine biology have been in the news: <b>Daniel Costa,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about the effects of sonar on whales. . . . <b>Jim Estes,</b> adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a story in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about changes in the Monterey Bay Aquarium's policy on sea otters. Estes supports the aquarium's decision to focus the efforts of its sea otter rehabilitation program on animals with a good chance of adding to the breeding population of the species. . . . <b>Don Croll,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, and his research on whales in Monterey Bay were the subject of a column in the <i>Salinas Californian.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Times</i> and the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> reported on a $300,000 estate gift to the UCSC Library's Special Collections archive of renowned science fiction writer Robert Heinlein, and the selection of <b>William Patterson Jr</b>. as the new campus Heinlein Scholar.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was interviewed by KSBW-TV about the recall. He also is hosting a Swedish educational TV channel that will be filming on campus next week.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-13/news.html "Permalink to news")
