---
layout: post
title: "UCSC celebrates the life of Lionel Cantu on May 30"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/cantu_lionel.03-05-26.jpg
    - caption: "Lionel Cantu Photo: UCSC Photo Services"
---

The sudden death last year of 36-year-old sociologist Lionel Cantu stunned his family, friends, and colleagues at UC Santa Cruz, who have established a memorial scholarship fund to honor Cantu's life and work.

The first scholarships will be presented during a celebration of Cantu's life on Friday, May 30.  

Cantu, an assistant professor of sociology at UCSC, died of cardiac arrest May 26, 2002, while hospitalized after suffering a ruptured intestine earlier in the week.  

Funded by more than $10,000 in contributions in Cantu's memory, the Lionel Cantu Memorial Award Fund was established to support graduate students who are pursuing studies in one or more of the areas in which Cantu worked: immigration studies, transnational/cross-border studies, Latino/Latina sociology, gender and sexuality, and gay men and masculinity. The fund will be administered by the UCSC Chicano/Latino Research Center (CLRC).  

The first recipient of the Lionel Cantu Memorial Award Fund will be named during a May 30 tribute, "A Celebration of Life: Lionel Cantu as Scholar, Mentor and Activist." Craig Reinarman, a professor of sociology and chair of the Sociology Department, will announce the recipient during a memorial gathering from 3 to 5 p.m. on the lawn adjacent to College Eight.  

The day's celebration will also include a sociology colloquium--presented by several of Cantu's graduate students on the significance of his mentoring and activism--from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in the Red Room at College Eight. Cantu's parents will present UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood with Cantu's library and papers, which will be permanently housed at the Women's Studies Library at Kresge College on the UCSC campus.  

In addition to the UCSC memorial fund, the UC Office of the President's Postdoctoral Fellowship Program has created The Lionel Cantu Memorial Fellowship to recognize Cantu's support of the fellowship program. Each year, a Lionel Cantu Postdoctoral Fellow engaged in research on international migration, HIV/AIDS, Latino/a Studies, Feminist Studies, or Queer Theory will be named._  
_


[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-26/cantu.html "Permalink to cantu")
