---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

Awards and Honors

Tom Pettigrew shares prize for work on intergroup relations with former student  

For the second time in his career, UCSC social psychologist Thomas Pettigrew has received the prestigious Gordon Allport Award in recognition of his work on intergroup relations. He shares the award with his former graduate student, Linda R. Tropp, now an assistant professor of psychology at Boston College.  

The recipients of the 2002-03 Gordon Allport Award were announced February 4 by the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues (SPSSI), a nonprofit organization of psychologists and social scientists that supports research on the psychological aspects of social issues. Pettigrew and Tropp received the prize for their paper, "A Meta-analytic Test and Reformulation of Intergroup Contact Theory," which shows the role intergroup contact plays in reducing prejudice. The annual award, which recognizes the "best paper or article on intergroup relations," carries a $1,000 cash prize. Pettigrew also received the Gordon Allport Award in 1988.  

Pettigrew, a research professor of social psychology, is a path-breaking social psychologist who is widely credited with demonstrating that racism is largely a matter of conformity to social norms and as such can be changed. He has studied intergroup relations for four decades.  

Tropp earned her Ph.D. in psychology from UCSC in 2000.

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-10/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
