---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1728
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Reuters and KCBS Radio were among the media outlets that covered new research by psychology's <b>Cam Leaper</b> and UCSC grad Harriet Tenenbaum that documented the effect of parental attitudes on girls' interest--and performance--in science. The American Psychological Association also posted the story on its widely read <i>PsychPort.com</i> web site that features stories related to psychology.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Chris Le Maistre,</b> managing director of the Center for Adaptive Optics, and <b>Claire Max,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics, were quoted in recent stories about the use of adaptive optics in vision science--Le Maistre in an Associated Press story and Max in the <i>Indianapolis Star</i>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Barbara Epstein</b> was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about peace march vandalism, as well as in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the Internet's effect on the antiwar movement.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Financial Times</i> of London consulted with economist <b>Menzie Chinn</b> for an article about international investors and spreading risk through diversification.
</p>
<p>
  Australia's <i>Gold Coast Bulletin</i> and <i>U.S. New &amp; World Report</i> quoted history lecturer <b>Bruce Thompson</b> in articles about Soviet espionage.
</p>
<p>
  Research led by <b>Andrew Fisher</b>, associate professor of Earth sciences, on the circulation of ocean water through the seafloor was covered in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Portland Oregonian, ScienceNow</i> and <i>Science Daily</i> web sites, and the UPI wire service. Fisher also fielded calls from the <i>Ottawa Citizen, National Post</i> of Canada, and the TV program <i>National Geographic Today</i>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The work of <b>Tricia Rose,</b> professor of American studies, was cited in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> review of a new book describing how rap music has displaced the civil rights movement.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Hugh Raffles</b> appeared on KSCO Radio, discussing his new book about the Amazon, which was also featured on the Micromedex web site.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of computer science <b>Scott Brandt</b> was featured in an article in <i>Computerworld</i> about the promise of "smart arrays" for data storage.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Milwaukee Journal Sentinel</i> described the work of poet/novelist and professor of literature <b>Nathaniel Mackey</b> in an article about the city's African American performing arts groups.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a lengthy story about <b>Jim Leap</b> and the <b>Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems,</b> focusing on the research contributions the facility makes to the fast-growing organic food industry.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An editorial about President Bush's State of the Union address by Kresge provost <b>Conn Hallinan</b> appeared in the <i>Baltimore Sun.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-17/news.html "Permalink to news")
