---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rangell_print.120.jpg
    - caption: "memento mori II, lithograph/chine colle, by Paul Rangell"
---

More News

Pajaro Valley Arts Council exhibit showcases work by UCSC faculty  

UCSC art lecturer Paul Rangell is cocurator (with Jane Gregorius) of Living Proof: Contemporary Santa Cruz Printmakers, an exhibit that brings together the work of 52 Santa Cruz County artists at the Pajaro Valley Arts Council (PVAC) Gallery in Watsonville through May 3. The show includes work by Rangell and other current and former UCSC art faculty members, including Tim Craighead, Richard Wohlfeiler, Don Fritz, Doug McClellen, Don Weygandt, Darien Payne, and Kathryn Metz. Many UCSC alumni also have work in the show.

Rangell will also give a lithography demonstration on Wednesday, April 9, from 6 to 9 p.m. at UCSC's Print Studio.

The show is part of a three-month Print Symposium coordinated by PVAC in partnership with UCSC, Santa Cruz Mountains Arts Center, Cabrillo College, Mission Gallery, Blackstone Winery, and Galleria Tonantzin. For location of galleries, dates of exhibits, and more information, call (831) 722-3062.  
_back to top_   

Register for recreation classes this week

Spring is here, and the [Recreation Department ][1] is ready with a wide variety of classes and trips to suit every interest: surfing, kayaking, rockclimbing, backpacking, and ski trips; massage and other holistic health classes; music, dance, knitting, and cooking; Survival Skills, Wilderness First Aid, and CPR classes; and much more. For more information, call (831) 459-2806 or pick up a copy of the _Spring 2003 Recreation, Intramural and Sports Guide._

Students may begin registering for Recreation Department classes on Tuesday, April 8, at 9 a.m. at the Recreation Office at the East Field House. Staff, faculty, and community members may begin registering on Wednesday, April 9\. Phone-in registration begins on Thursday, April 10. Register over the phone with a major credit card. Non-UCSC students pay an additional fee.  
_back to top_

UC will pursue AOL Time Warner lawsuit in California state court  

The University of California will file an action in California state court against AOL Time Warner Inc., its directors and officers, its auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, and the financial advisers involved in the 2001 AOL Time Warner merger, Citigroup, Salomon Smith Barney, and Morgan Stanley Inc., claiming securities fraud arising out of the collapse in the price of AOL Time Warner stock. UC's Board of Regents authorized the move at its meeting in San Francisco on April 3.  

The university's complaint will allege that AOL materially misrepresented its revenues and number of subscribers during the period prior to and immediately after its January 2001 merger with Time Warner Inc.  

At the time of the merger, UC owned more than 11.3 million shares of Time Warner stock worth approximately $800 million, and no shares of AOL. The reduction in the value of UC's investment as a result of the subsequent decline in AOL Time Warner's share price is in excess of $450 million.

[UCOP press release][2]   
_back to top_

Week of the Young Child celebrated on campus with an exhibit of children's art

Join Child Care Services and the UCSC Women's Center in celebrating the Week of the Young Child with a children's art show. A reception with the artists will take place on Friday, April 18, from noon to 6 p.m. at the Women's Center.  

The [Week of the Young Child][3], sponsored by the National Association for the Education of Young Children, takes place April 6-12. The theme this year is "Children's Opportunities--Our Responsibilities." Organizers use the week to focus public attention on the needs of young children and their families and to recognize the importance of early-childhood programs that promote the early learning of young children.  
_back to top_

High Street bike lane and stop signs will be discussed at city Transportation Commission meeting April 9

The city Transportation Commission will be discussing the issue of the High Street contraflow bike lane and all-way stops at its April 9 meeting. The meeting will take place at 7 p.m. in the City Council Chambers, 809 Center Street.

If you would like to submit comments on the bike lane/stop signs to the commission, you may e-mail them to [cschmitt@ci.santa-cruz.ca.us][4]   
_back to top_

Women at Work Retreat to hold fundraiser April 12  

Come enjoy the Latin rhythms of Broken English and support the Women at Work Retreat. The group is having a CD release party as a scholarship fundraiser for the Women at Work Retreat on Saturday, April 12, at the UCSC Inn (formerly the Holiday Inn), 540 Ocean Street in Santa Cruz. The event is for 21 and over. Tickets are $15 in advance and $18 at the door. For ticket information, call (831) 460-3080  
_back to top_

Drivers urged to be cautious during stoplight construction

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][5]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][6] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][7]_back to top_

  

[Return to Front Page][8]  

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/index.html
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2003/apr3art1.html
[3]: http://www.naeyc.org/woyc/default.asp
[4]: mailto:cschmitt@ci.santa-cruz.ca.us
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[8]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-07/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
