---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about a meeting of engineering faculty with Silicon Valley technology leaders to discuss data storage solutions. Computer scientists **Darrell Long, Scott Brandt,** and **Ethan Miller** were featured in the story.   

The _Houston Chronicle_ quoted American studies professor **Dana Frank** in an article about Ecuador and the globalization of the banana industry.  

Astrophysicist **Stan Woosley** was interviewed on campus by a PBS TV production crew working on a program for the science documentary series _NOVA._ The production crew had previously interviewed astronomer **Sandra Faber,** a consultant for the program, at the W. M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii.

**Cathy Sandeen,** vice provost and dean of UC Santa Cruz Extension, penned an opinion piece on the importance of lifelong learning for the _Silicon Valley Biz Ink._ She was also the subject of a Q. & A. in a special issue of the _India Post_ devoted to UC Santa Cruz Extension and its services in Silicon Valley.

The _Chicago Tribune_ quoted American studies professor **Tricia Rose** in an article about fashion and the music industry.  

Environmental toxicology graduate student **Myra Finkelstein** was quoted in an article in the _Honolulu Star-Bulletin_ about her research on lead poisoning of albatross chicks on Midway Atoll. Finkelstein found the chicks are eating paint chips flaking off of old buildings on the islands.  

The _Argus Leader_ noted an appearance by assistant theater arts professor** Alma Martinez** at the University of South Dakota to discuss "The Myth of the Hollywood Latino Stereotype."

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-22/news.html "Permalink to news")
