---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/yung_bookcover.jpg
    - caption: "Judy Yung's presentation will be based on research she conducted for her book Unbound Voices."
---

More News

Committee seeks input from users of services provided by the Office of Sponsored Projects

Vice chancellor for research Robert Miller has convened a committee to carry out a review of the Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP). This is a critical time for the campus in that the need for external funding is growing, and the growth in the campus will accompany significant increases in workload for OSP. The committee would like to hear from the user community--both faculty and nonfaculty users of the office. The committee would like to know:  

* What are your needs as a member of the OSP user community?   
* What aspects of OSP are being done well and what aspects need to be improved?   
* What functions should OSP be performing that it is not doing at present?  

The committee welcomes all input and invites direct contact with committee members. Individuals on the committee will be reaching out to people in their own divisions, but input to any committee member will be considered by the group as a whole. Individuals not affiliated with an academic division may contact committee chair Eli Silver (see contact information below).  

The committee plans to complete the review before the end of spring quarter and would like your input as early as possible to help focus its efforts. Input will be accepted and considered at anytime during the review but will have the most impact if received by April 7.   

Committee members are:

* Margarita Azmitia (psychology) [azmitia@ucsc.edu][1]
* Barry Bowman (molecular, cell, and developmental biology) [bowman@biology.ucsc.edu][2]  
* Don Brenneis (anthropology) [brenneis@ucsc.edu][3]  
* Gail Hershatter (history) [gbhers@ucsc.edu][4]  
* Michael Isaacson (electrical engineering) [msi@soe.ucsc.edu][5]  
* Andrew Neighbour (associate vice chancellor and director,   
Office of Research Administration, UCLA)[ aneighbour@resadmin.ucla.edu][6]  

* Joe Konopelski (chemistry) [joek@chemistry.ucsc.edu][7]  
* Patrick Mantey (computer engineering) [mantey@cse.ucsc.edu][7]  
* Eli Silver, committee chair (Earth sciences) [esilver@es.ucsc.edu][8]
* Karen Fry, staff (assistant director of development, physical and biological sciences) [kafry@ucsc.edu][9]  

_Back to top_

Judy Yung will speak on March 25 as part of a new Diversity Lecture Series  

American studies professor Judy Yung will present a slide/talk featuring the personal stories of women in Chinese American history on Tuesday, March 25, from noon to 1:30 p.m. at the Bay Tree Building, Conference Room D. See [_Currents][10][_ article][10]  

The event is part of a new Diversity Lecture Series sponsored by the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action. All UCSC faculty and staff are invited to attend.

The presentation is based on extensive research Yung conducted for her latest book, _Unbound Voices: A Documentary History of Chinese Women in San Francisco._ Drawing upon an intimate collection of letters, poems, autobiographies, newspaper clippings, and oral histories, the book portrays the lives of 40 Chinese American women from the late 1800s through World War II, creating a picture of their ability to make a home for themselves in America, despite severe racial, economic, and cultural constraints.

For more information about the UCSC Diversity Lecture Series, call (831) 459-1590. [Registration][11] is required.  
_Back to top_

Campus community invited to preview new Academic Information System

The campus will get a glimpse of the new[ Academic Information System][12]\--offering users quick access to information on everything from student grades to enrollment statistics--at the Town Hall Meeting from 10 a.m. to noon on Monday, March 31, in the Media Theater. All members of the UCSC campus community are invited to attend.  

Campus community system steward Eric Goodman, student records lead Pam Hunt-Carter, and student records process manager Paul Bauman will present the first look at the new system. Teams including multiple campus constituencies have been working on a preliminary configuration using UCSC information.  
  
Project director Mark Cianca will present the proposed project timeline and opportunities for interested campus community members to get a hands-on "test-drive" of PeopleSoft applications.  

Those with questions may e-mail ([bonitas@ucsc.edu][13]) or call Bonita Sebastian at (831) 459-5312.   

Earlier_ Currents_ [story][14] on the new system  
_Back to top_

Proposals for UC-wide Instructional Technology Grants Due April 21

The UC Teaching, Learning & Technology Center (TLtC) is seeking proposals for its Intercampus Collaborative Grants program, which aims at furthering innovative and appropriate uses of technology in teaching and learning through partnerships across the campuses. UC faculty are invited to apply for TLtC Full-scale Expansion & Implementation grants (up to $75k per year for a maximum of three years) which are intended to expand curricular strategies that use technology beyond a single campus, for the potential benefit of the entire UC system. The deadline to submit proposals is April 21.  

Application instructions, as well as examples of proposals that have been funded in the past, can be found on the [TLtC web site][15].  
_Back to top_

Retirement system overview offered  

"Introduction to the University of California Retirement System," the first of several presentations by the UCSC Benefits Office, will be offered on March 21 and May 14 at the Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D. The March 21 session will be from 12:15 to 1:45 p.m. and the May 14 session from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.  

Subjects to be covered will include the University's Defined Benefit Retirement Plan, the Capital Accumulation Provision, the Defined Contribution Plan Pre-Tax and After-Tax programs, and the voluntary tax-deferred 403(b) plan. The workshop is similar to that given at new employee orientations.  

All faculty and staff members may attend the sessions, but space is limited. To enroll, call (831) 459-2013.  
_Back to top_

Construction update: Framing work under way on new campus apartments

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][16]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][17] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][18]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][19]  

[1]: mailto:azmitia@ucsc.edu
[2]: mailto:bowman@biology.ucsc.edu
[3]: mailto:brenneis@ucsc.edu
[4]: mailto:gbhers@ucsc.edu
[5]: mailto:msi@soe.ucsc.edu
[6]: mailto:aneighbour@resadmin.ucla.edu
[7]: mailto:joek@chemistry.ucsc.edu
[8]: mailto:esilver@es.ucsc.edu
[9]: mailto:kafry@ucsc.edu
[10]: ../03-03/women.html
[11]: mailto:tpchinn@ucsc.edu
[12]: http://ais.ucsc.edu/
[13]: mailto:bonitas@ucsc.edu
[14]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/08-19/software.html
[15]: http://www.uctltc.org/funding/
[16]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[17]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[18]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[19]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/03-17/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
