---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/print_sale03.200.jpg
    - caption: "Print by Carolyn Pennypacker Riggs"
  -
    - file: ../art/photo_sale03.150.jpg
    - caption: "Photograph by Ryan Linke"
  -
    - file: ../art/girl_on_poles.200.jpg
    - caption: "Shirley Wang and Adam Mena play on the new climbing structure. Photo: Louise Donahue"
---

More News

Granary Child Development Center celebrates new playground

Children at the Granary Child Development Center have a new climbing structure, child-size garden, tented grassy play area, and a tunnel in their sandbox. To celebrate the new playground and thank the many people who made it possible, Granary families and staff and community volunteers gathered for a party and ribbon-cutting ceremony on May 23. ([More photos ][1])

A broad array of campus and community members were involved in renovating the playground at the center, including members of the Kiwanis Club and its college affiliate, the Circle K Club; UCSC undergraduate Mark Ng, who launched the Empty Ink Cartridge Recycling Project to raise funds for new playground equipment; the UCSC Farm & Garden, which donated plants; parents in UCSC's Family Student Housing who helped plant grass; First Five, Santa Cruz County's Children and Families Commission, which provided a grant to help fund the renovation; KaBoom, a Redwood City-based nonprofit organization that provides grants for community-supported playground renovations; and the California Department of Education, which also contributed financial support.  
_back to top_

Renowned nature photographer Frans Lanting to give slide lecture

Hailed as one of the great nature photographers, Frans Lanting portrays wild creatures as ambassadors for the preservation of compete ecosystems. On June 4, Lanting will give a slide lecture, titled "Life a Work in Progress," for the UCSC Spring Foundation Forum. The presentation is based on his upcoming book, which explores evolutionary patterns in nature. See [flyer][2] (pdf file)

The lecture is presented by Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and the UC Santa Cruz Foundation Board of Trustees. The event begins at 4 p.m. in the Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room and is **open only to the campus community. **A faculty panel discussion follows.  
_back to top_

Photography print sale at Baskin on June 6   

UCSC's Fine Art Program will present its second annual photographic print sale on Friday, June 6. The sale will take place in conjunction with the Art Department's Open Studios event and the Student Print Sale (see below). The sale begins at 10 a.m. and ends at 6 p.m. in the quad at the Baskin Visual Art Studios.

Affordable prints drawn from the works of more than 200 photography students, alumni, faculty, and staff will be on display at the sale. This event is free and open to the public.

For information on transportation and parking, contact Jyl Kelley at (831) 459-2282._  
__back to top_

29th Annual Student Print Sale June 6 and 7   

The UCSC Art Department presents the 29th annual Student Print Sale on June 6 and 7, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., at the Printmaking Studio, located in Room G-101 of the Baskin Visual Arts Center.

Hundreds of original prints will be for sale in a variety of media, including woodcut, lithography, etching, and digital printmaking. This is a great opportunity to see the professional quality of the printmaking program and facilities at UCSC.

This event will run in conjunction with the Art Department's Spring Quarter Open Studios and the Photo Sale (above). Admission is free. For more information, contact Veda Ozelle at (831) 459-3686 or [vozelle@ucsc.edu][3].  
_back to top_   

Receiving Surplus Operations to hold public auction

Receiving Surplus Operations will hold a public auction of surplus and unclaimed property on Saturday, June 28. This is a great time to identify your department's surplus property and to recycle all the equipment you no longer need. Just fill out the surplus [request form][4] and return it by June 6.

The auction will take place at the H Barn, next to the Police and Parking Offices, with inspection beginning at 9 a.m. and the auction at 10 a.m.

For more information, contact Steve Goldie at (831) 459-2852 or e-mail [steveg@ucsc.edu][5].  
_back to top_

Construction update

The stoplight on Coolidge Drive near the base of campus was activated May 19. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][8]_back to top_

  

[Return to Front Page][9]  

[1]: granary.html
[2]: lanting.pdf
[3]: mailto:vozelle@ucsc.edu
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/matman/receiving/surplusform.doc
[5]: mailto:steveg@ucsc.edu
[6]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-26/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
