---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3255
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Politics professor <b>Michael Urban</b> was interviewed by BBC Radio about the Chechen War and by Radio 101, based in Zagreb, Croatia, about the Putin presidency.
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about a report from the National Science Board on the nation's workforce needs in science and engineering.<br>
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Dana Frank</b> was quoted in North Carolina's <i>The News &amp; Observer</i> about how difficult it is today to buy American products.
</p>
<p>
  A story about comparative genomics in <i>Genomics and Proteomics</i> included a sidebar on the UCSC Genome Browser, with quotes from <b>David Haussler,</b> Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator and professor of computer science.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of film and digital media <b>Shelley Stamp</b> was quoted in the <i>San Francisco Weekly</i> about her $25,000 grant from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to complete a book about silent film director Lois Weber. An article also appeared in the <i>Register-Pajaronian.</i>
</p>
<p>
  In a story marking the 50th anniversary of the discovery of rapid-eye movement and its link to dreaming, the <i>Pittsburgh Post-Gazette</i> quoted psychology's <b>Bill Domhoff.</b> An accompanying article described Domhoff's Internet dream bank and his work documenting cross-cultural similarities in dreaming. . . . Speaking of dreams, <i>Men's Fitness Magazine</i> used psychologist <b>Veronica Tonay</b>'s new book <i>Every Dream Interpreted</i> for an upcoming article about dream interpretation.
</p>
<p>
  A story on high-tech prosthetic devices in the <i>Medical Post</i> featured <b>Wentai Liu,</b> professor of electrical engineering and campus director of the Center for Biomimetic MicroElectronic Systems.
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts lecturer <b>Tandy Beal</b> was featured in a <i>Good Times</i> cover story about <i>The New Nut,</i> her reinvention of <i>The Nutcracker.</i> Articles also appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Register-Pajaronian,</i> and <i>Metro Santa Cruz.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> reviewed <i>Triptych,</i> a new play by Edna O'Brien, noting that it was "beautifully and sensitively staged by Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director <b>Paul Whitworth</b>."<br>
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted in Australia's <i>Green Left Weekly</i> in an article about her public lecture at the University of Queensland, where she was attending an international conference on Women in Prison.<br>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC writing lecturer <b>Tim Fitzmaurice</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the death of former UC president Clark Kerr.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-15/news.html "Permalink to news")
