---
layout: post
title: "Long Marine Lab's annual 'Whale of an Auction' set for June 20"
author: Shawna Williams
images:
---

The Friends of Long Marine Lab will hold a "Whale of an Auction," the group's popular annual fundraiser, on Friday, June 20. The event will take place in the Porter College Dining Hall, starting at 6 p.m.

A social and gastronomic occasion as well as an auction, the evening includes a full dinner buffet, champagne and caviar tasting, cheese and salmon tables, wine, and music. The event raises funds to support Long Marine Laboratory's public education programs.   

Tickets for the evening are $50 for members, $60 for nonmembers (if purchased by June 7), and $65 at the door. Sponsored tables of 10 are $800. To purchase tickets, please contact Teri Sigler at (831) 459-5828.  

Auctioneers Karen Cogswell and Stan Phillips will lead the silent and live auction.

Many exciting and unique items will be up for bid, including a 2003 Ford Focus, field trips with researchers, a gourmet dinner for 12 with Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, a clambake for 20 on the beach at the Crow's Nest, a children's birthday party at the Seymour Center, a bumper-car party with wine, pizza, and beer for 50 at the Boardwalk, rounds of golf, art, and jewelry. Surfing lessons, wetsuits, surfboards, and a mountain bike are also among the items to be auctioned. Weeklong vacation trips will go up on the block as well, with destinations including Maui and Kona in Hawaii; Cabo San Lucas, Mexico; Sun Valley, Idaho; and Incline Village at Lake Tahoe.  

The Friends of Long Marine Lab welcomes contributions of auction items and services. To donate items, please contact Lisa M. Rose at (831) 459-3694.  

All education programs and daily operations of the lab's Seymour Marine Discovery Center depend on community support. Contributions to the Whale of an Auction help bring marine science alive for the community.  

The Seymour Center at Long Marine Lab is dedicated to educating people about the role scientific research plays in the understanding and conservation of the world's oceans. Long Marine Lab is a research facility of UCSC's Institute of Marine Sciences.  


[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/06-09/auction.html "Permalink to auction")
