---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3060
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> was widely quoted in news stories about the $330 million University Affiliated Research Center (UARC) which UCSC will manage under a contract with NASA Ames Research Center. Stories about the UARC, some of which also featured quotes from the center's managing director, William Berry, ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, San Francisco Chronicle, Oakland Tribune, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey County Herald, Contra Costa Times, Tri-Valley Herald, Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal, Pajaronian, Washington Computer Week, The Scientist</i> magazine, and <i>SpaceRef.com.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies discussed Argentina's relationship with the International Monetary Fund on the <i>Marketplace Morning Report,</i> produced by Minnesota Public Radio.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was featured in a <i>Miami Herald</i> article about her speech at Florida International University calling for an end to prisons.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology lecturer <b>Mike Males</b> appeared in the <i>Tulsa World</i> in a piece entitled, "Are American Girls Becoming More Violent?"
</p>
<p>
  Asteroid researchers <b>Steven Ward</b> and <b>Erik Asphaug</b> were cited in a <i>Popular Science</i> article about the threat of an asteroid collision with Earth.
</p>
<p>
  Music lecturer <b>Paul Contos,</b> was quoted in a <i>Monterey County Herald</i> article about mentoring young musicians.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropology's <b>Adrienne Zihlman</b> was quoted on <i>Outside</i> magazine's question page, responding to the query, "Why are primates so much stronger than us?"
</p>
<p>
  Since the publication of their new book <i>Whitewashing Race,</i> <b>Michael Brown</b> and <b>David Wellman</b> have been busy fielding media calls from the Associated Press, KRON-TV in San Francisco, and radio stations in San Jose, Napa, Wisconsin, Massachusetts, as well as NPR affiliate WNJT in Trenton, New Jersey.
</p>
<p>
  The<i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> interviewed <b>Dwight Collins,</b> executive chef for UCSC Dining Services, and <b>Geraldine McCutcheon,</b> chef at Stevenson College, for a story on healthy food options at UCSC dining facilities.<br>
  <br>
  <i>American Libraries</i> noted the retirement of University Librarian <b>Allan Dyson</b> after 24 years at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-29/news.html "Permalink to news")
