---
layout: post
title: "Harvest Festival October 11 features live music, tasty food, and more"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/scarecrow.03-10-06.220.jpg
    - caption: "The Harvest Festival offers events and activities for all ages. Photo: Laura Ridenour"
---

Grab the kids and celebrate the changing of the seasons at the annual UCSC Harvest Festival on Saturday, October 11, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.  

Live music, tasty food, and crafts for kids are only some of the fun that will be available at the UCSC Farm. Admission is free for kids 12 and under and members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden; adult admission is $5; UCSC students are $3 with ID.  

Horse-drawn hayrides will supplement the ever-popular tractor-drawn Farm tours, and bakers are encouraged to enter the second-annual Apple Pie Bake-Off (see below for entry rules).

As always, face painting, pumpkin painting, and apple pressing will be available for the little ones, while adults will enjoy tasting apples, browsing displays, and attending workshops.   

Major business sponsors include Christiansen Associates Gardens & Designs, New Leaf Community Markets, Odwalla, and Stonyfield Organic Farms. For more information call (831) 459-3240. For directions to the UCSC Farm, call (831) 459-4140 or see [www.ucsc.edu/casfs][1].  

**Schedule**  

**11 a.m.-12:45 p.m.: **Mariposa (Folk music for adults and kids)  
**11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.:** Apple Pie Bake-Off entries   
**11:30 to 4 p.m.:** Apple tasting featuring varieties grown at the UCSC Farm & Garden  
**12-1 p.m.:** Choosing Landscape Plants for the Home Garden with Christof Bernau, Garden Manager, UCSC Farm  
**1-2:45 p.m.:** Estudiantina San Patricio (Latin American Folkloric music)  
**1:15-3 p.m.:** Cooking Fresh from the Garden with chef Jozseph Schultz of Jozseph's Extraordinary Culinary Events  
**1:30-2:30 p.m.:** Walking tour of the Farm  
**2-3 p.m.: **Growing and Using Herbs for Health and Nutrition with herbalist and acupuncturist Darren Huckle  
**3 p.m.:** Winners of the Apple Pie Bake-off announced  
**3:15-5 p.m.:** Kuzanga (Marimba music)  
**4-5 p.m.:** Growing and Using Herbs for Health and Nutrition with herbalist and acupuncturist Darren Huckle

**Official Rules for the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden Apple Pie Bake-Off**  

**11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.:** Pie Entry  
**12:45 p.m.:** Official Judging Begins  
**3 p.m.:** Presentation of Awards  

1\. The Friends of Farm & Garden Apple Pie Bake-Off is a nonprofessional baking competition open to Harvest Festival attendees (entry to the Harvest Festival is $5; Friends of the Farm & Garden members and children 12 and under are free).  

2\. Contestants are responsible for submitting a written (preferably typed) recipe with their pie.  

3\. Contestants are responsible for supplying all ingredients and cooking the pie prior to bringing it to the bake-off.  

4\. All entries in this contest must be homemade.  

5\. A representative of the Friends of the Farm & Garden will assign each contestant a number. Contestants should verify the number on the bottom of their container is the same number assigned by the representative.  

6\. Contestants' entries are judged 70 percent on taste and 30 percent on presentation, creativity, and composition.  

7\. The decision of the judges shall be final.  
All pies must be entered by 12:30 p.m. at the Farm & Garden Harvest Festival, UCSC Farm.  

For additional copies of the bake-off rules contact Joan Tannheimer at (831) 459-3240.

  
  

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/casfs

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-06/harvest.html "Permalink to harvest")
