---
layout: post
title: "Comprehensive transit study under way"
author: Teresa Buika
images:
---

Transportation and Parking Services (TAPS) has begun a yearlong study of the interaction between the UCSC Shuttle system and the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District (Metro) buses serving university locations on and off campus.

The Comprehensive Transit Study follows the addition of bidirectional buses on campus in recent years, and comes amid campus growth and constrained budgets.

The study is designed to provide a dialogue between the campus and TAPS to maintain an efficient and effective transit system.  

Ubritran, a transportation consulting firm with expertise working on university campuses, is conducting the study, funded by an $80,000 federal transit planning grant. A steering committee of staff, faculty, students, city officials, and Metro will oversee and provide input to the study.  

In April, Urbitran conducted a variety of "stakeholder" interviews with many different constituent transit users and key campus administrators, and met with TAPS and Metro staff. The consultants also spent a day at various bus stops on and off campus conducting spot surveys with transit riders.  

During the week of May 5, Urbitran consultants will conduct an on-board survey of Metro bus, UCSC Shuttle, and UCSC Disability Van Service riders to gather data about destinations and transit use. This information will be key in assessing future recommendations for route changes and service changes.   

From May 9 to 16, TAPS will be conducting a onetime UCSC Transit Survey of all faculty, staff, and students to hear views on the transit services currently offered. This survey will reach all university affiliates, not just those who use mass transit. At the same time, TAPS will also conduct its annual UCSC Transportation Survey.  

Over the summer, the consultants will use the data to develop recommendations on how to make the overall university transit system more effective. These recommendations could include new or changed routing for UCSC shuttles and/or Metro buses, both on and off campus; creation of new express routes to campus for commuting purposes; creation of new services; and improvements to serving the ever-growing off-campus administrative offices.  

Draft findings are scheduled to be presented in late fall or early winter, with input sought from all campus constituents.   

_Anyone wishing to offer comments on the study or other topics may e-mail [TAPS.][1]_  


[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: mailto:taps@ucsc.edu
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-05/taps.html "Permalink to taps")
