---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/zanes_dan.girl.jpg
    - caption: "Dan Zanes & Friends will perform at the Rio Theater on December 2. Photo: Anna Williams"
---

More News

Faculty to give presentations on the 'New Geopolitics of Empire' on November 24

Profesors Edmond Burke lll, Paul Lubeck, and Alan Richards will be take part in a panel discussion on "America's Imperial Moment, Six Months Later" on Monday, November 24, from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the Namaste Lounge at Colleges Nine and Ten. The talks are part of a series of presentations sponsored by the Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies on the New Geopolitics of Empire. The event is free and open to the public.

Each of the three faculty members will give a talk followed by comment and discussion led by politics professor Isebill Gruhn. The titles of the faculty talks are as follows:

* "Empire and Colonialism, Then and Now" by Edmund Burke III, professor of history  
* "Religious Fanaticism and the Clash of Imperial Visions" by Paul Lubeck, professor of sociology  
* "The Burdens of U.S. Imperial Strategy" by Alan Richards, professor of environmental studies  

For more information, contact CGIRS at [global@ucsc.edu][1] or (831) 459.2833.  
top

**Kids' concert on December 2 to feature former Del Fuegos frontman Dan Zanes and friends**

UCSC Arts & Lectures will present the exuberant, kid-oriented, and parent-friendly music of [Dan Zanes & Friends][2] on Tuesday, December 2, at 7 p.m. at the Rio Theater (1205 Soquel Ave.) in Santa Cruz. The former lead singer and songwriter for Boston's legendary rock band the Del Fuegos, Zanes has become a smash hit throughout the country, playing music for enthusiastic crowds of kids and kid sympathizers.

Zanes's first CD, _Rocket Ship Beach,_ includes Sheryl Crow, Suzanne Vega, and Simon Kirke, the drummer for Bad Company. A second album, _Family Dance,_ comprises dance songs from a wide variety of musical traditions and features Loudon Wainwright III and Roseanne Cash. Zanes's most recent effort, _Night Time!_ includes collaborations with Aimee Mann, Lou Reed, John Doe, Dar Williams, and others. _Rocket Ship Beach_ and _Night Time!_ both garnered Parent's Choice Gold Awards for Recommended Audio. Dan Zanes's music can be heard at: [www.cdbaby.com/cd/danzanes][3].  

Zanes has a new CD soon be released, titled _House Party--_ a rambunctious 20-song collection with diverse instrumentation and guest appearances by Deborah Harry, Bob Weir, Angelique Kidjo, and Philip Glass.  

Tickets are available at the UCSC Ticket Office: (831) 459-2159 or at [A&L On-Line][4].  
top

UCenter will host Holiday 'Survivor' Night on December 2

The University Center invites faculty and staff to get together for a Holiday "Survivor" Night on December 2 from 5 to 7:30 p.m. to share a bit of holiday cheer and get some tips on surviving the holidays.

UCenter executive staff will demonstrate easy cooking ideas for fantastic results, beautiful and easy flower arrangements, and how to make a hot buttered rum really special. They will also offer quick holiday decorating advice. Seasonal hors d'oeuvres, spiced cider, and coffee will be served during the presentation; the bar will be open for those who wish to purchase drinks. There may even be some "survivor trivia" for those in the mood. The cost is $35 per person. Call (831) 459-4321 or e-mail: [clarkj@ucsc.edu][5] now for reservations.  
top

Psychologist invited to speak on dream research

Research professor of psychology [Bill Domhoff][6] has been asked to participate as an invited speaker during the meeting of the American Psychological Society in Chicago, May 27-30, 2004\. Domhoff will address the question, "Can Dream Research Find a Home in Cognitive Science?"  
top

Thumbs Up Awards program reinstated  

It's nice to recognize the efforts of an employee who goes the extra mile, and that's what the "Thumbs Up" Award Program is all about.  

Reinstated this fall by the UCSC Staff Advisory Board and Staff Human Resources, the program gives staff an opportunity to acknowledge the special service provided by an individual employee, a team, or an academic employee serving in an administrative role.  

Each staff member may submit up to five nominations (a team nomination counts as one nomination). Please describe your reason for each nomination in 25 words or less and send them to [thumbsup@ucsc.edu][7]. Please include your name, department, phone number, who you are nominating, and why. Paper nominations may be mailed to Rachel Huff in the Cogen Plant.  

Nominations will be accepted through 5 p.m. on December 5. Recipients will receive a "Thumbs Up" award certificate and a small token of appreciation. Awards will be mailed the second week of December.  
top

Construction update

Currents provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][8]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][9] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][10]top  
  

[Return to Front Page][11]  

[1]: mailto:global@ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www.festivalfive.com/pages/home.php
[3]: http://www.cdbaby.com/cd/danzanes
[4]: http://events.ucsc.edu/artslecs
[5]: mailto:clarkj@ucsc.edu
[6]: http://psych.ucsc.edu/dreams/About/bill.html
[7]: mailto:thumbsup@ucsc.edu
[8]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[11]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/11-17/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
