---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/pettigrew_tom.140.jpg
    - caption: "Thomas Pettigrew Photo: Jennifer McNulty"
---

Awards and Honors

Thomas Pettigrew named New Century Scholar  

Thomas F. Pettigrew, research professor of social psychology, has been named a New Century Scholar by the U.S. Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. Pettigrew is one of only 30 scholars selected to the new fellowship program, which addresses "sectarian, ethnic and cultural conflict within and across national borders."   

Under the program, Pettigrew, a leading scholar on racial prejudice, will conduct research on the reactions to the millions of new immigrants to Western Europe. He will be hosted by Ulrich Wagner, a professor at Philipps University in Marburg, Germany.  

Now in its second year, the New Century Scholar program selects 30 scholars each year (15 from the United States and 15 from overseas) to explore a different theme each year. The overseas scholars come to the United States to work with a social scientist, while Pettigrew and his counterparts travel to work with foreign social scientists. The entire group will meet several times, beginning this February in Tarrytown, New York.   

Pettigrew has worked with Wagner since 1988, conducting research on attitudes toward Europe's new immigrants. Pettigrew's research combines social psychological research on individual attitudes with research from sociology, political science, and history.   

On the social psychological side, Pettigrew says the reception to new immigrants in Europe reflects "all the things we have learned about prejudice around the world." But each country is very different in its reception, reflecting different cultures, laws, structures, and workforces, said Pettigrew, whose work seeks to bridge these two research areas.  
_Back to top_

Donald Saposnek receives Outstanding Psychologist Award

Donald T. Saposnek, a lecturer in psychology, has received the 2002 Outstanding Psychologist Award from the Monterey Bay Psychological Association. The award was presented at the group's annual dinner banquet in December. Saposnek was recognized for his contributions to psychology, child and family development, parent education, and the development of model court mediation and parent education programs benefiting children of divorce. The Monterey Bay Psychological Association has about 100 members in the Santa Cruz-San Benito-Monterey County area.  
_Back to top_

American Folklore Society honors work of Olga Najera-Ramirez  

The women's section of the American Folklore Society has awarded its annual Elli Kongas-Maranda Nonstudent/Professional Prize to UCSC anthropology professor Olga Najera-Ramirez and coauthor Norma E. Cantu for their book _Chicana Traditions: Continuity and Change_ (University of Illinois, 2001).   

The prize recognizes outstanding work on women's culture, feminist theory, and folklore. Recipients are honored for contributions that can inspire further work in the field of women's folklore. The award, which carries a $250 honorarium, was announced at the American Folklore Society's 2002 annual meeting held in October in Rochester, New York.  
_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-27/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
