---
layout: post
title: "University Center grand opening draws hundreds"
author: Ann Gibb
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/mrc_ucenter.03-02-03.180.jpg
    - caption: "Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood mingles with the crowd at the grand opening. Photo: Ann Gibb"
  -
    - file: ../art/lounge.03-02-03.220.jpg
    - caption: "This lounge is just outside the dining room at the University Center. Photo: Ann Gibb"
---

An estimated 900 guests, including staff, faculty, alumni, and community members, toured the new University Center and enjoyed a complimentary sampling of food from the restaurant's menu at the grand opening held January 30.

"This is an exciting day we've all been waiting for," said Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, who attended the opening. "The new University Center is a place where we can come together to visit, enjoy a meal, or have a meeting in one of the beautiful conference rooms."  

The chancellor encouraged everyone to consider becoming a member of the University Center. Memberships, including the special charter membership available this year only, carry benefits and help support the ongoing operation of the center. However, the chancellor emphasized, one does not need to be a member to use any of the spaces in the University Center.   

Sabrina Eastwood, public events manager for the Arts Division, attended the opening with colleague Jenni Meyer. "It's a lovely facility, and I think there's a potential for it to do well," said Eastwood.   

The crowds at the opening demonstrated that the campus is ready for the new addition of restaurant and meeting space. From the moment the grand opening began, food service staff were busy serving a variety of menu items, including vegetarian and meat pizza, Gorgonzola ravioli, sandwiches, "UCSCeasar" salads, and desserts.

Tables in the dining room were filled, a jazz trio entertained from the patio, and guests circulated among the two lounges and three conference rooms.  

Beginning on Monday, February 3, the University Center will provide restaurant and lounge services on weekdays in addition to space for meetings, small conferences, and other special events. The rooms are also available for private parties.

For details on meeting and entertainment room rentals and additional information about the University Center, visit the center's [web site.][1]


[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-03/center.html "Permalink to center")
