---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1998
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> cited a visit by actor Nicholas Cage (and his cousin Roman Coppola) to a UCSC film class on "The Features Page" of its Datebook arts and entertainment section. The visit was arranged by Film and Digital Media Department chair <b>Chip Lord.</b> The <i>Good Times</i> also ran a story on the appearance. Lord was also quoted, along with Assistant Professor <b>Gustavo Vazquez,</b> in a <i>Good Times</i> feature article about UCSC film students.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Nancy Chen</b> of anthropology was cited in an article in <i>The Edge Malaysia</i> about how Asia is embracing the DNA revolution. Chen is tracking China's development of transgenic plants.
</p>
<p>
  A study by geophysicists <b>Steven Ward</b> and <b>Erik Asphaug</b> describing the destructive tsunami that could result from an asteroid impact in the Atlantic Ocean received widespread coverage. Ward was interviewed by television news crews for KION, KCBA, and KPIX, and for radio broadcasts on KSCO and the Virginia News Network. An Associated Press wire story appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and other newspapers around the country. Stories about the study also appeared on several online news sites, including <i>Scientific American</i> online, <i>Science Daily, Space.com,</i> and <i>Slashdot.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> wrote about the "feminization" of anthropology, tapping anthropologist <b>Donald Brenneis</b> for comment.
</p>
<p>
  The <b>UCSC New Teacher Center</b> was hailed as a "particularly effective model for inducting new teachers" in a <i>Business Perspectives</i> article.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Albie Miles</b> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems discussed community-supported agriculture on KAZU Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/06-02/news.html "Permalink to news")
