---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/family_portrait.150.jpg
    - caption: "Photo by Laura Turbow from 'Many Faces, One People: a Jewish Family Album,' on display at Cowell Coffee Shop"
  -
    - file: ../art/interior.03-01-06.155.jpg
    - caption: "The University Center's grand opening caps a nearly 20-year campaign for a campus gathering place. Photo: Karen Kroslowitz"
---

More News

University Center grand opening January 30  

The new [University Center][1] will officially open its doors on Thursday, January 30, and faculty and staff are invited to join in the grand-opening festivities. Between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., center staff will serve a complimentary sampling of food from the restaurant's menu, and there will be drawings for prizes. (A late-afternoon event, originally scheduled, has been postponed until the center can obtain a liquor license.)

The center is located on the top floor of the Colleges Nine/Ten Dining Hall Commons. Parking is very limited at Colleges Nine/Ten, so people are encouraged to take the bus. "Perimeter" campus shuttles and Metro buses drop off and pick up passengers on a regular basis on McLaughlin Drive adjacent to Colleges Nine/Ten (on the north side) and the Health Center (on the south side).

For more information, see the _Currents_ [article][2] on the new University Center or visit the center's [web site.][1]  
_Back to top_   

Staff input sought in selection of new UC president

The Regents of the University of California have appointed a Staff Advisory Committee (SAC) as part of the process for the selection of a new president of the University of California. The charge of the SAC is to solicit potential interview questions and staff thoughts as to the characteristics and qualities that the selected candidate should possess. Responses will be compiled by the SAC and may be included in the overall selection criteria from staff for this position.   

Staff input for the selection process is critical and we welcome comments from every staff constituency.   

Patt Takeuchi has been selected as the UCSC delegate to the Staff Advisory Committee. Please send your potential questions, comments, and concerns to her via e-mail at [patt@ucsc.edu][3] no later than February 1.  
_Back to top_

Portraits of diversity exhibited at Cowell Coffee Shop

"Many Faces, One People: A Jewish Family Album," an exhibit of 20 family portraits taken at Mosaic, Camp Tawonga's multiracial family camp weekend, will be displayed at the Cowell College Coffee Shop through February 2.

The portraits, taken by photographer Laura Turbow, show a variety of families-- interracial marriages, multicultural marriages, and straight, gay, and single parents with adopted children of different races. Each portrait is shown alongside a quote from the family about what it means  
to be in a Jewish and multiracial family.  

For more information about Mosaic; the exhibit "Many Faces, One People"; or Camp  
Tawonga, contact Sarah Lefton at (415) 543-2267 or sarah@tawonga.org. Digital scans of the photographs are available for reproduction.  
_Back to top_   

Recreation Department offers class in drumming

**Drum Circle Workshop  
**The language of rhythm will be the focus of an afternoon drum circle workshop on Saturday, February 1, from 2 to 6 p.m. This introductory class taught by local drummer Don Davidson will emphasize technique and self-expression on a variety of instruments provided by the instructor. All are welcome, and no experience is necessary. The cost is $15 for UCSC students; $20 for the public. The workshop will take place in the multipurpose room in the East Field House on the UCSC campus. Space is limited; call (831) 459-2806 to register.

**Note: **Tthe Sky Phenomena & Atmospheric Wonder class has been canceled.**  
**  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][4]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][5] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][6]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][7]  

[1]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu/
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-06/center.html
[3]: mailto:patt@ucsc.edu
[4]: ../../construction.html
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[7]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-27/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
