---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1876
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Bill Domhoff</b> wrote a thought-provoking piece for the magazine <i>In These Times</i> on redefining "who's 'us' and 'them'" in the quest for egalitarian social change.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Oregonian</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <b>Barbara Epstein</b> in a piece about the antiwar movement.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Glenn Stewart,</b> program manager for the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, was interviewed by local media, including the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> KSCO Radio, and KION TV, about the release of three peregrine falcon fledglings at Long Marine Laboratory. The <i>Sentinel</i> story also quoted Seymour Center director <b>Julie Barrett Heffington.</b>
</p>
<p>
  An article about fisheries management in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine featured quotes from <b>Marc Mangel,</b> professor of applied math and statistics and head of the Center for Stock Assessment Research, and <b>Teresa Ish,</b> a graduate student in ocean sciences.
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Work of Dance: Labor, Movement and Identity in the 1930s,</i> a recent book by theater arts professor <b>Mark Franko,</b> was hailed as "remarkable" and "riveting" in the April issue of <i>Choice.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was interviewed by Utah's <i>Ogden Standard Examiner</i> about brainwashing and cultic influence processes as part of the paper's coverage of the Elizabeth Smart kidnapping case.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about how producers of the movie <i>The Core</i> consulted with professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Glatzmaier,</b> but ended up ignoring his advice. Glatzmaier was also quoted in stories about the movie's scientific weaknesses in <i>Popular Science</i> and <i>MSNBC News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Amelie Hastie,</b> assistant professor of film and digital media, made an appearance with host Andrea Lewis on KPFA Radio to discuss television coverage of the war against Iraq.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> covered the recent Mexico City meeting between government officials and Mexican expatriates who live in the United States, tapping <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies for comment on the significance of the meeting.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey Herald</i> ran a story about art exhibits at the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science and Technology (MBEST) Center. MBEST assistant director <b>Shelley Kadota</b> was quoted in the story.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page feature story, quoting library development director <b>Margaret Gordon,</b> about renowned cookbook author and alumnus Bruce Aidells's donation to establish a cookery endowment at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Faye Crosby</b> of psychology gave interviews to London's <i>Guardian</i> newspaper, as well as KUSP Radio and <i>Metro Santa Cruz,</i> about the U.S. Supreme Court case challenging the use of affirmative action in admissions by the University of Michigan.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> featured <b>Lisa Sloan</b>, associate professor of Earth sciences, in a story about how global warming is likely to affect the Central Coast.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Cincinnati Enquire</i>r story about fetal surgery mentioned sociologist <b>Monica Casper</b>'s book, <i>The Making of the Unborn Patient.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an item about <b>Todd Lowe,</b> assistant professor of computer engineering, who was awarded a Sloan Research Fellowship.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-21/news.html "Permalink to news")
