---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/banff_festival.150.jpg
    - caption: "From 'Escape over the Himalayas-Tibet's Children on Their Journey into Exile' Photo: Joerg Arnold"
---

More News

Major change for Banana Slug Spring Fair

This year Banana Slug Spring Fair (BSSF) will focus only on alumni reunions and will not be an Admissions Office event. For a listing of BSSF alumni events, go to the Alumni Association [events calendar][1].

The decision to eliminate admissions yield activities from BSSF is due to escalating costs and the status of construction on the west side of campus, according to a [memo][2] issued by Kevin Browne, executive director of admissions and university registrar, and Carolyn Christopherson, executive director of the Alumni Association.

With construction disruption, the Admissions Office will be able to give prospective student visitors a better sense of the campus in groups of 31 than would be possible with crowds of 9,000 to 10,000 visitors, typical with BSSF.

Browne asks the campus community to be conscious of Admissions Tour groups and prospective student visitors as they make that difficult decision of where to enroll next fall, and to offer whatever assistance they are able.

See[ full text][2] of message.  
_Back to top_

GLBT Friends Group launched

Celebrating its fifth year of existence this year, UCSC's Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Resource Center has formed a "friends" group of students, staff, faculty, alumni, and community members committed to the enrichment of the center and its programs.  
  
The Friends of the GLBT Resource Center board hosted a staff and faculty mixer at the UCSC Inn in late January during which the center's first five years were celebrated in a multimedia presentation.  
  
In addition, a Friends Group membership drive was launched and $9,000 was raised. "The Center has already achieved so much and positively influenced the lives of so many of our students in it's first five years," said Dave Keller, president of the Friends group. "With the support of an active and viable Friends group, the future potential is incredible."  
  
Center director Deb Abbott said the establishment of the Friends group is especially timely given campuswide budget challenges. "The Friends will make a substantial difference in the center's capacity to maintain and expand its programs," she said.  
  
Abbott said the center is helping build UCSC's stature among GLBT students; UCSC finished in the top ten in one national survey and first in a UC systemwide survey. "We've developed great campus and community partnerships over the past five years," Abbott said.  
  
To learn more about or to become a charter member of the Friends of the GLBT Resource Center, visit the center's website ([www2.ucsc.edu/glbtcenter][3]) or send email to the Friends group ([glbtfriends@ucsc.edu][4]).  
_Back to top_

Banff Mountain Film Festival benefits OPERS programs

Climb the highest peaks, paddle the wildest waters, and journey to some of the most enchanting and beautiful places on the planet from your seat at the Banff Mountain Film Festival. The festival will be held on Saturday and Sunday, February 22 and 23, at the Rio Theater on Soquel Avenue in Santa Cruz. It begins at 7:30 p.m. both evenings with a different group of films each evening. A listing of the films to be shown can be found on the [UCSC Recreation Department][5] web site.

The [Banff Mountain Film Festival][6], presented by Eagle Creek Travel Gear and National Geographic Magazine, is an international competition featuring the world's best films and videos on mountain and adventure subjects. Last year, 250 films from 27 countries were submitted to the competition.

Local sponsors for the film festival are the UCSC Recreation Office, Bugaboo Mountain Sports, and Pacific Edge. Proceeds from the film festival benefit the UCSC Wilderness Orientation Scholarship Program and the UCSC Recreation Adventure Outings Scholarship Fund.

Tickets are$9/general admission and $7/students and can be purchased beginning January 27 at Bugaboo Mountain Sports (429-6300), Pacific Edge Climbing Gym (454-9254), and the UCSC Box Office 459-2159 ($1 service charge).  
_Back to top_

Italian consul-general visits campus and gives lecture on American cinema

Guido Fink, the Italian consul-general for California, traveled to UCSC last week as a guest of the UCSC Jewish Studies Program. Fink delivered a lecture on Jewish themes in American cinema at Cowell College and also made an appearance in the class_ Literature of the Holocaust,_ taught by Professors Murray Baumgarten and Peter Kenez.  

Fink is the author of the book, _Not Only Woody Allen: The Jewish Tradition in American Cinema,_ published in Italy in 2001, which received the Italian award for the Best Critical Book on Film in 2002. He and his wife Daniela were responsible for the Italian (subtitled) editions of Steven Spielberg's _Schindler's List,_ Louis Malle's _Vanya on 42nd Street,_ and Orson Welles's_ It's All True_. Fink is currently on a four-year leave from the University of Florence to serve as director of the Italian Cultural Institute in Los Angeles.  
_Back to top_

Sociologist Paul Lubeck will give talk on Muslim views on war and violence

Paul Lubeck, professor of sociology and director of the Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies, will give a talk titled _Islamic Responses to War and Violence_ on Tuesday, February 11, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Cowell College Conference Room. Students, staff, faculty, and community members are welcome; there is no charge.

Lubeck teaches political economy, global issues, and the role of religion in social movements. He has lived and conducted research in Nigeria and Muslim West Africa for three decades. In addition to Nigeria, his field research experience includes Niger, Ghana, Malaysia, South Africa, and Mexico. Lubeck's first book, Islam and Urban Labor in Northern Nigeria, was awarded the Herskovits Prize in 1987. In the area of public service, he is a senior fellow at the Center for International Studies and director of the [Global Information Internship Program][7] at UCSC.

Lubeck's talk is part of a lunchtime series on Religious Responses to War and Violence, sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. For more information, call (831) 247-6145.  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][8]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][9] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][10]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][11]  

[1]: http://www.ucsc.onlinecommunity.com/cgi-any/calendar_show.dll/display?sitename=UCSC&id=69
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/messages/02-03/01-27.slug.html
[3]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/glbtcenter
[4]: mailto:glbtfriends@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/banff.html
[6]: http://www.banffcentre.ca/mountainculture/about/film.htm
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/giip
[8]: ../../construction.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[11]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-10/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
