---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1693
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  A cover story in the February issue of <i>National Geographic</i> magazine about astronomers' efforts to understand the formation of the first galaxies includes a section on <b>Sandra Faber,</b> University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, and the state-of-the-art spectrograph DEIMOS that she designed for the Keck Observatory in Hawaii.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Mark Kessler,</b> a postdoctoral researcher in Earth sciences, received widespread media coverage for his work explaining the origins of stone circles and other mysterious patterns that form on the ground in northern regions. The coverage included articles in the <i>New York Times, Chicago Sun-Times, Seattle Post Intelligencer, Arizona Republic, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Newsday, Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Daily News, San Diego Union-Tribune, Dallas Morning News,</i> and <i>Daily Telegraph</i> (London). Kessler also did several radio interviews. Online coverage included <i>BBC News</i> and <i>Discovery News.</i> The Discovery Channel Canada, <i>Scientific American,</i> and <i>New Scientist</i> magazine also covered the story.<br>
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Judy Yung</b> was quoted in the <i>Ft. Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel</i> about the persistence of racial epithets against Japanese-Americans.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Propaganda expert <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> of psychology continues to be in demand, fielding recent calls about war propaganda from <i>abcnews.com</i> and <i>foxnews.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was tapped by the <i>New York Times</i> for comment on the economic downturn and the loss of jobs in Silicon Valley.
</p>
<p>
  Research by <b>Russell Flegal,</b> professor of environmental toxicology, and graduate student <b>Douglas Steding</b> on mercury contamination of rainwater was covered in <i>U.S. News and World Report</i> and NASA's <i>Earth Observatory News</i>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Wichita Eagle</i> mentioned economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>'s research on NAFTA and job displacement in an article about the 10-year anniversary of the trade pact.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology grad student <b>Susan Greene</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about her work with local women inmates, and she was interviewed by radio stations KSCO and KZSC.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a feature article about <b>David Swanger,</b> professor of education and creative writing, who recently donated a collection of letters from renowned American short story writer (and former UCSC instructor) Raymond Carver to the library's Special Collections.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Griggs</b> was quoted in an article on shoreline erosion in the <i>Monterey County Herald.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-03/news.html "Permalink to news")
