---
layout: post
title: "Campus forum to focus on Arts and Community Access Area Plan"
author: Scott Rappaport
post_id: 1678
images:
---

<p>
  UCSC will hold a campus forum on Friday, February 7, to discuss the Arts and Community Access Area Plan for new facilities to be built in the Performing Arts area of the university.
</p>
<p>
  The meeting will take place from 10 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. in the Music Recital Hall Lobby.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Arts and Community Access Area Plan is a 25-year outlook for the number, kind, and placement of new facilities to be constructed in the general area between Porter College, McHenry Library, and the Music Center, a section of the campus that currently includes the Sinsheimer-Stanley Shakespeare Festival Glen, the Theater Arts Center, the Music Center, and the Elena Baskin Visual Art Center.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Potential projects for the site include 55,000 square feet of academic instruction and research space, improved parking facilities and circulation--with an emphasis on improving general public access to arts programs on campus, a major visual arts center including a gallery and museum, and a campus auditorium with a capacity in the vicinity of 1,500 seats.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A group of consultants, led by Thomas Hacker Architects Inc. and Walker Macy, will utilize information gathered from previous meetings with focus groups and campus planners to present a set of preliminary proposals at the forum. Faculty, staff, and students will be able to view suggested plans, offer comments, and ask questions about the plans.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "The point is to look at the site and ask what is its capacity to develop arts programs and community access programs sensitively and intelligently...and with a coherent vision of what it will look like at the end," noted Arts Division dean Edward Houghton."<br>
</p>
<p>
  Houghton added that it was important to phase in future development in this area of the campus smoothly and efficiently, anticipating the demographic needs of the campus in the future.<br>
</p>
<p>
  For additional information, visit the <a href="http://arts.ucsc.edu/dean/areastudy">web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-03/arts.html "Permalink to arts")
