---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3124
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Slawek Tulaczyk,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about changes in California's glaciers. While Sierra Nevada glaciers are in rapid retreat, those on Mt. Shasta are growing. The story also ran in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, San Mateo County Times, Boston Globe,</i> and <i>Dallas-Fort Worth Star Telegram.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> and <b>Nancy Aebersold,</b> director of the Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC), were quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury</i> <i>News</i> article about the launch of the first northern California web site for jobs in higher education -- founded by UCSC. Articles also appeared in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Business Journal, Contra Costa Times</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and the story was additionally covered by KGO, KLIV, and KSCO radio.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC was mentioned in a pair of articles in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about efforts to foster interdisciplinary collaborations at top universities. <b>Michael Isaacson,</b> associate dean of research and graduate studies in the engineering school, was quoted in one of the stories.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> profiled American studies professor and department chair <b>Tricia Rose</b> in an article titled "Class with the 'Ph.D. Diva.'"<br>
</p>
<p>
  Adjunct professor of computer science <b>Arthur Keller</b> was featured in a segment on the <i>News Hour</i> with Jim Lehrer about Wi-Fi (wireless Internet) networks.<br>
</p>
<p>
  KSBW-TV interviewed statistician <b>David Draper</b> for a story about the California Lottery.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A story in the <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal</i> about UCSC's partnership with NASA Ames in a University Affiliated Research Center included quotes from Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> and <b>William Berry,</b> deputy director of the Silicon Valley Center.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Daniel Costa,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a story about the effects of sonar on whales that ran in a large number of newspapers, including the <i>Contra Costa Times, Detroit Free Press, Houston Chronicle, Lexington Herald Leader, Miami Herald, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Saint Paul Pioneer Press, San Jose Mercury News,</i> and <i>San Diego Union Tribune.</i> Costa was also quoted in a related story that ran in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle.</i><br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article quoting music lecturer <b>Irene Herrmann</b> about <i>Paul Bowles on Music,</i> a new book she coedited of music criticism by the renowned author.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-27/news.html "Permalink to news")
