---
layout: post
title: "New members elected to Staff Advisory Board"
author: Jennifer McNulty
post_id: 3002
images:
---

<p>
  Four new members and two incumbents were elected to the UCSC Staff Advisory Board (SAB) this summer.
</p>
<p>
  The group held its annual retreat in August to discuss priorities for the coming year, said incoming SAB Chair Rachel Huff, business coordinator of Physical Plant.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://sab.ucsc.edu/">board</a>, established to promote the well-being and interests of UCSC staff, will focus this year on increasing its participation on campus committees for long-range planning and transportation, said Huff.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The board will also focus on wellness issues, including workers' compensation and child care, and plans to monitor topics of concern to staff, including the campus budget, health care, and parking. To increase the board's visibility, SAB hopes to revamp its web site and increase communication with the campus community, added Huff.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "We'll hold our quarterly brown-bag forums with Chancellor Greenwood, and we hope to host quarterly staff forums with representatives of the Executive Budget Committee's project teams," said Huff. "It's going to be a busy year for staff--and exciting."<br>
</p>
<p>
  In addition to meeting each fall and spring with Greenwood, SAB members hope to hold quarterly meetings with Campus Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor John Simpson or his designate.<br>
</p>
<p>
  More than 1,400 staff members returned ballots during the three-week voting period to elect SAB representatives, said Huff. "It was the biggest turnout ever," she said, adding that 2,300 people work on campus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  SAB members are listed below with the ending date of their three-year term noted in parentheses; incumbents elected to a second consecutive term are Patt TakeuchI and Ed Titus.
</p>
<p>
  * Rosemary Anderson, executive assistant to the associate vice chancellor of Colleges and University Housing Services (2005)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Robert Bartee, counseling psychologist, Health Center (2006)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Katrina Cope, career adviser, Career Center (2006)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Pamela Edwards, administrative analyst, Academic Senate (2006)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Roberto Garcia, Educational Partnership Center (2005)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Rachel Huff, business coordinator, Physical Plant (2004)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Norma Ray, instructional program analyst, Humanities Division (2005)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Judy Scarborough, human resources analyst, Humanities Division (2006)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Sandy Schmidt, access services coordinator, Science &amp; Engineering Library (2004)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Patt Takeuchi, senior analyst, Colleges and University Housing Services (2006)<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Ed Titus, telecommunications manager, Communications and Technology Services (2006)
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-01/election.html "Permalink to election")
