---
layout: post
title: "UCSC Extension programs have international appeal"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/humphrey.03-07-07.240.jpg
    - caption: "The Humphrey Fellows are one of the international groups participating in UCSC Extension programs this summer. This photo shows last year's participants."
---

Scholars from around the world are getting a cram course in American academia this summer from UCSC Extension's English Language and International Programs department.

Whether it's Egyptian teachers, [Fulbright Scholars ][1] or professionals participating in the Humphrey Fellows program, UCSC is drawing an international clientele.  

A group of 25 teachers from Egypt have just headed home following a teacher-training initiative, and now the University Town Center, the program's base, is playing host to 10 Fulbright Scholars. On July 21, 26 Humphrey Fellows--midcareer professionals preparing for a year of study and professional experience at American universities--will arrive for a three-week orientation.  

While the focus of the Egyptian group was on training teachers to train other teachers, the aim of the intensive Fulbright and Humphrey Scholars sessions is to orient participants to the ways of American universities.   

There is a heavy emphasis on fine-tuning English skills, and also an effort to ease participants into American culture. Some of the Fulbright Scholars audit or enroll in UCSC classes, and they get further acclimated to the United States by having UCSC student roommates.   

Some of the biggest adjustments involve nonacademic issues, noted Lori Buehring of the English Language and International Programs department. "Many of the the students are married, and this is the first time they've lived alone," she said. They also often are not used to cooking, and have trouble finding familiar foods in local grocery stores, she added.   

Community and government tours and weekend trips are planned to help the Humphrey Fellows learn more about the United States, said program host Jay Minert. They will also be matched with cultural and professional mentors.  

Academic sessions are tailored to each group's needs. For the Fulbright Scholars, who are being prepared to work toward master's degrees and Ph.D.s at American universities, the focus is on English skills, writing, and other academic preparation for American graduate schools. 'They're learning about what's expected in the United States university system," said Lori Buehring of UCSC Extension.

The students represent a wide range of subjects, including marine biology, library science, natural resource management, and marketing. In August, the Fulbright Scholars will start leaving Santa Cruz to begin graduate school at institutions as varied as Yale, Purdue, Texas A&M, and San Jose State. While Fulbright orientations were once conducted only in the summer, the program is now year-round.  

The Humphrey Fellows will undergo an intensive week of English practice, followed by sessions on presentation skills, intercultural communication issues, academic honesty, and computer workshops. The fellows represent a cross-section, including China, Slovakia, Brazil, and many Middle Eastern nations. "Some of them are very well established in their home countries," said Minert. The fellows include pharmacists, economists, doctors, bankers, and educators--"It is a pretty wide range."   

A Global Forum is scheduled for August 6 and 7 to showcase the Humphrey Fellows, and give other members of the campus community a chance to meet them before they move on to their assigned universities in the east. Details of the event will be decided later this summer.   

The Fulbright Program was established in 1946 under legislation introduced by former U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas. The Humphrey Fellowship Program was founded in 1978 in honor of U.S. senator and vice president Hubert H. Humphrey. Both programs are federally funded.  

[1]: http://exchanges.state.gov/education/fulbright/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-07/summer.html "Permalink to summer")
