---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1634
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  More News
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="bikes" id="bikes"></a>Campus police to crack down on illegal bicycle parking
</p>
<p>
  Bicyclists have been locking their bikes to light posts, handrails, ramps, stairs, and transit shelters. This creates hazards for pedestrians and can prevent access by those with disabilities, thus violating the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).<br>
</p>
<p>
  The campus is now enforcing the current UCSC code, which states that bicycles "...shall not be parked, stood, or locked against any lightpost, stair railing, ramp, or any portion thereof, nor shall they block in any way curb cuts, ramps, or paths of accessible travel. Bicycles shall be parked in bicycle racks provided; those parked elsewhere may be impounded."
</p>
<p>
  Until January 17 bicycles parked illegally will be issued warnings; beginning on Tuesday, January 21, any illegally parked bicycle may be impounded. The bicycle owner will be responsible for all costs associated with this action, including the citation, an impound fee, and the cost of removing the bicycle from where it is locked.<br>
  <br>
  To report areas where bikes are parked illegally, contact the University Police at (831) 459-2231. If you have any questions about this enforcement effort, contact Susan Willats at (831) 459-3759.<br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="books" id="books"></a>UC Press books available online at no charge</span><br>
  <br>
  More than 500 University of California Press books are available online free of charge through an ongoing partnership between UC Press and the California Digital Library. The University of California Press eScholarship Editions can be searched and browsed at <a href="http://escholarship.cdlib.org/books.html">http://escholarship.cdlib.org/books/</a>.<br>
  <br>
  Over 300 of the University of California Press eScholarship Editions are available to the public. The other titles are currently only available to UC faculty, students and staff. Readers outside the UC system may view citations, abstracts and tables of contents, but not the full texts.
</p>
<p>
  Titles available to all readers include <i>Technopolis: High-Technology Industry and Regional Development in Southern California; Understanding Heart Disease; AIDS: The Burdens of History; Before Taliban: Genealogies of the Afghan Jihad; and A History of Wine in America.</i>
</p>
<p>
  See full text of UC Office of the President <a href="http://www.ucnewswire.org/news_viewer.cfm?story_PK=2375&amp;CFID=262670&amp;CFTOKEN=4479462">press release.</a><br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="bargains" id="bargains"></a>UCSC added to list of Kiplinger's 'Baccalaureate Bargains'
</p>
<p>
  The October issue of <i><a href="http://kipnew-live.worldweb.net/index.html">Kiplinger.com</a></i> published a list of the top 100 college bargains, titled <a href="http://kipnew-live.worldweb.net/magazine/archives/2002/October/managing/college.html">"Baccalaureate Bargains."</a> Recently the magazine acknowledged an error in the computerized scoring system used to rank the colleges that left five schools off the top-100 list.<br>
  <br>
  The five schools that have now been added to the top-100 are listed below with the total estimated costs for this year's freshman class, including room and board for in-state and out-of-state students. (The schools are ranked in order from 96 through 100.)<br>
  96. Ohio University ($16,606/$24,088).<br>
  97. University of Rhode Island ($15,278/$24,748).<br>
  98. University of California, Santa Cruz ($16,393/$27,810).<br>
  99. Mississippi State University ($12,876/$17,418).<br>
  100. University of Nebraska, Lincoln ($13,012/$17,687).<br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a name="natsci" id="natsci"></a><span class="sectionhead">Natural Sciences renamed the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences<br></span>
</p>
<p>
  The Division of Natural Sciences has changed its name to the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences. The new name is more reflective of the division's mission, is better understood by the general public, and is more consistent with other UC campuses, said the division's dean, David Kliger.<br>
  Formal approval of the name change was granted by UC's Office of the President in December.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The change was endorsed by the division's department chairs and the Committee on Planning and Budget. The renaming does not involve any programmatic changes, organizational changes, or changes in any instructional or research programs.<br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a><br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="class" id="class"></a>Wilderness First Aid class offered by Recreation Office
</p>
<p>
  The Wilderness Medicine Institute of the National Outdoor Leadership School is offering a Wilderness First Aid and WFR Recertification class on January 25 and 26. The two-day course is used by many organizations to introduce first aid and long-term patient care to trip leaders, guides, and rescue team members. For full details, go to the course description in the Recreation Department's <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/firstaid.html#wfa">online catalog</a>.
</p>
<p>
  The cost of the class is $100/UCSC students; $145/non-UCSC students. For more information or to register, call (831) 459-2806 or stop by the Recreation Office to pay with cash or check.<br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="calendar" id="calendar"></a>Finalized campus calendar for 2003-04 now available
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://reg.ucsc.edu/calendar/2003_04.html">campus calendar</a> for the 2003-04 academic year has been finalized and is now available on the web at <a href="http://reg.ucsc.edu/calendar/2003_04.html">http://reg.ucsc.edu/calendar/2003_04.html.</a> The calendar includes several modifications and has been approved by Campus Provost Simpson. The three primary changes are:<br>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>In fall 2003, classes begin on Thursday, September 25, rather than Wednesday, September 24, thus restoring valuable orientation time especially important for placing first-year students in appropriate writing classes.<br>
  </li>
  <li>In winter 2004, instruction begins on Monday, January 5, rather than Tuesday, January 6, and the advising day is eliminated, thus making it possible for classes to end on Friday, March 12, rather than Tuesday, March 16. As a result, there is no need for final exams to be scheduled on Saturday, and the quarter ends on Thursday, March 18, rather than Sunday, March 21, allowing for a spring break that includes a full week with two weekends.<br>
  </li>
  <li>In Spring 2004, instruction begins on Monday, March 29, rather than Tuesday, March 30, thereby restoring the required day of instruction lost by starting classes a day later in the fall.<br>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  Contact Kevin Browne, executive director of admissions and university registrar with any comments or questions at (831) 459-5779 or <a href="mailto:kmbrowne@ucsc.edu">kmbrowne@ucsc.edu.</a><br>
  <a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="Construction" id="Construction"></a>Construction update
</p>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.<br></a><a href="#bikes"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-13/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
