---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3241
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  UCSC and Long Marine Lab figure prominently in an article in the December issue of <i>Discover</i> magazine about alumnus <b>Ted Cranford.</b> Cranford earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees here studying marine mammals with the late <b>Kenneth Norris,</b> who is also featured in the story. The article--by another UCSC alum, science writer <b>Shannon Brownlee</b>--details Cranford's investigations of the anatomy and astonishing noise-making capacity of sperm whales. Cranford is now an adjunct professor at San Diego State University.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> tapped <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies for a story about the long-term costs of U.S.-led coups in Guatemala and Iran in the early 1950s, and the story ran in Salt Lake City's <i>Deseret News</i>. Jonas, who delivered a keynote speech during a November conference on "Thwarting Democracy in Iran and Guatemala: What Have We Learned Fifty Years After the U.S.-Sponsored Coups," was also interviewed about Guatemalan politics by Chicago Public Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Hispanic Outlook</i> magazine quoted <b>Francisco Hernandez,</b> executive director of the <a href="http://www.uccp.org">UC College Prep Initiative</a>, in an article about online education.
</p>
<p>
  A story in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about threatened foxes on Santa Cruz Island and golden eagles that are preying on them includes comments from <b>Brian Latta</b> of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group. The story also ran on the AP wire service and appeared in the <i>Salt Lake Tribune, Minneapolis Star-Tribune,</i> Palm Springs <i>Desert Sun,</i> and other papers.
</p>
<p>
  An in-depth interview with sociologist <b>Mike Males,</b> who specializes in issues of youth, was featured on <i>DRCNet,</i> the online home of the <a href="http://www.drcnet.org/AboutUs.html">Drug Reform Coordination Network</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Michael Dooley</b>'s analysis of the $500 billion U.S. deficit was covered by <i>The Economist</i> magazine and discussed on the <i>EIU RiskWire.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Maggie Fusari,</b> director of the UCSC Natural Reserves, was quoted in a story in the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> about squatters who live on public lands.
</p>
<p>
  Forensic anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway</b> was quoted in <i>Newsday</i> about the research value of the University of Tennessee's extensive collection of human skeletons.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about <b>Ken Bruland,</b> professor and chair of ocean sciences, and his appointment to the Ida Benson Lynn Chair in Ocean Health.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A front-page story in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> described the annual illumination of "Ms. Blue," Long Marine Lab's blue whale skeleton, which gets decked with Christmas lights for the holiday season. <b>Jeannie Humphrey,</b> manager of the Seymour Center's Ocean Discovery Shop, is featured in the article.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-08/news.html "Permalink to news")
