---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/making_sandwiches.200.jpg
    - caption: "Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches were available for students giving up their residence hall meals."
  -
    - file: ../art/banff_festival.150.jpg
    - caption: "From Escape over the Himalayas--Tibet's Children on Their Journey into Exile Photo: Joerg Arnold"
---

More News

UCSC honored for food drive efforts  

UC Santa Cruz has received the Platinum Can Award for its efforts in the fall 2002 Second Harvest Food Drive. UCSC's total was 45,334 pounds. (Contributors are credited with three pounds of food for every dollar donated.)   

In addition to the campuswide contributions of canned goods and cash, 1,026 students participated in the "Hunger Fast," raising $4,423. These students opted to donate the cost of two meals in the residence halls on November 22. A check from Sodexho Services, which operates UCSC dining services, was presented to the Food Bank.  

"It was wonderful working with a group of such enthusiastic and committed students who, aside from the many demands of college life, put in numerous hours in an effort to make a difference in the life of someone less fortunate," said Danny Ambrose, cochair with Charlene Lo of the Hunger Fast project.  
  
The Hunger Fast has been done before, but this was the first year for a "PB&J party" at Quarry Plaza for students unable to go off campus for meals that day. Sodexho donated the bread and the Student Volunteer Connection purchased the peanut butter and jelly.   
_Back to top_

Multicultural Career Conference scheduled for Feb. 22

"Creating Connections: Building Your Future" is the title of the 16th annual [Multicultural Career Conference][1] on Saturday, February 22, from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Dining Hall Stage Room at Colleges Nine and Ten. The conference consists of a brunch/lunch, entertainment, ethnic community meetings, alumni panels, and a reception. For a detailed agenda, go to the [conference web site.][1]

The conference provides students of color and low income students with an opportunity to bridge the gap between the university and careers by connecting with alumni in person. Alumni of color from various career and professional fields, as well as alumni who are currently in graduate school, participate on panels and in breakout groups. See the [listing of 2003 alumni participants][2] grouped by career field.

The conference is cosponsored by the Career Center, EOP, the Alumni Association, the Ethnic Resource Centers, and Student Affairs.  
_Back to top_

ESL classes organized for 20 custodial staff  

Through the efforts of Director Ilse Kolbus and Custodial Manager Jesse Magana, Physical Plant has engaged the services of the Santa Cruz Adult Education Center to provide English as a Second Language (ESL) classes to  
more than twenty Physical Plant Custodial staff. The classes will be held on campus every Wednesday and Friday, beginning February 19 through April 25\. Both day- and nightshift custodial personnel will participate in this program.  

This is the first time that formal ESL classes are being offered to staff on-site. Classes are scheduled so that participants are able to attend the classes either at the end of their day shift or the beginning of their night shift, using a combination of their own time and some release time. The goal of the course is to improve communication on the job.  
_Back to top_

Two-year housing guarantee reinstated  

Jean Marie Scott, associate vice chancellor for Colleges and University Housing Services, has announced the reinstatement of the two-year on-campus housing guarantee for new freshmen. The guarantee will be implemented beginning with new freshmen entering in fall quarter 2003. Reinstatement of the guarantee is based on enrollment projections in light of increased housing capacity. In addition to housing in two new colleges coming on line this past fall, the "infill" apartments are projected to open in fall 2004 at Cowell, Stevenson, and Porter Colleges.  
_Back to top_

Staff psychologist presents her work with students to APA national conference

Marta Elena Corona, a staff psychologist at UCSC, presented a one-hour discussion during the recent [National Multicultural Conference and Summit][3] (NMCS) of the American Psychological Association. The event, which takes place every two years, focused this year on "The Psychology of Race/Ethnicity, Gender, Sexual Orientation, and Disability: Celebrating Our Children, Families, and Seniors."  

The conference brings together leading psychologists to address issues related to research, education and training, practice, and public interest issues. Participants have experience in the areas of race relations and ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, and disability.  

Offered for the third time this year, the NMCS drew more than 1,000 participants. Corona's presentation, "Cultural Identity Development: A Group Designed for Chicano-Latino University Students," was based on work she conducted at UCSC through [Counseling and Psychological Services][4] (CPS), where Corona runs small cultural-identity groups for Chicana-Latina students.   

Group participants explore identity development theory and discuss how being bicultural or multicultural influences their experiences, including college issues such as choice of major, academic success, and career planning, as well as social and family relationships.   

"We integrate experiential cultural awareness exercises and questionnaires, share stories, art, poems about cultural identity, and celebrate Chicana-Latinas throughout the world," said Corona. "This is not a group where you are asked to do homework. The goal is to offer a relaxed, fun, and safe learning environment. It also serves as a general support group for Chicana-Latina students."  

The groups have been so successful that CPS is now developing a group for Chicano-Latino male students that will be facilitated by Max Camarillo, director of CPS.  

Corona is the psychological counselor at Stevenson College. She joined the staff of Counseling and Psychological Services in the fall of 2001. She extended a special thanks to the UCSC community and to her CPS colleagues for their support of her work and is grateful to the students who have made the work successful. For more information, contact Corona at [martaelenacorona@aol.com][5].  
_Back to top_

Stephen Gliessman gives keynote speech at agroecology conference in Mexico

Environmental studies professor Stephen Gliessman, a pioneer of agroecology, recently celebrated two milestones that reveal the maturity of sustainable agriculture and its spread in Mexico and Latin America.  

Gliessman was a keynote speaker at the second International Symposium on Sustainable Rural Development in Tropical Regions, held last November in Villahermosa, Tabasco, Mexico. Symposium participants gathered to review the concepts and practice of sustainable development.   

Gliessman's address, "Making the Conversion to Sustainable Agriculture," focused on the need to connect the ecological, social, and economic aspects of sustainable agriculture. Gliessman discussed the ways in which traditional and indigenous farming systems in the tropics evolve and reflect the people and their environment. "There are multiple ways to make the conversion from conventional to sustainable practices," said Gliessman, who believes direct links between producers and consumers will play a critical role in facilitating the conversion.   

Surrounded by friends and colleagues at the symposium, Gliessman was pleased to celebrate the formal release of the Spanish version of his agroecology textbook, _Agroecology: Ecological Processes in Sustainable Agriculture._ Presentations were made by officials from the state of Tabasco, as well as the founding director and alumni of the Superior College of Tropical Agriculture. All agreed that the Spanish edition will greatly advance the goals of agroecology.   

The state of Tabasco supported the translation and printing of the Spanish edition, which was published in July 2002 at the Center for Tropical Agricultural Research and Education (CATIE) in Turrialba, Costa Rica. For more information, visit [www.agroecology.org][6].  
_Back to top_

UC files suit against WorldCom in California state court

The University of California filed a complaint on February 13 on its behalf under California securities fraud law in California Superior Court against Salomon Smith Barney, Citigroup Inc., and Arthur Andersen LLP, accusing them of being involved in the staggering financial collapse of WorldCom Inc. The complaint was announced in a [press release][7] issued by the Office of the President February 13.

Filed in San Francisco, the complaint alleges that WorldCom, with the complicity of the defendants, engaged in a massive accounting fraud that inflated the price of its stock, damaging shareholders such as the university.

UC's losses totaled in excess of $353 million, based on 10.2 million shares of WorldCom and related securities purchased between 1998 and early 2000\. In addition to its stock losses, UC will also seek punitive damages against at least some defendants.

A copy of the complaint is available in pdf at [www.ucop.edu/news/worldcom/complaint.pdf][8].  
_Back to top_

Banff Mountain Film Festival benefits OPERS programs

Climb the highest peaks, paddle the wildest waters, and journey to some of the most enchanting and beautiful places on the planet from your seat at the Banff Mountain Film Festival. The festival will be held on Saturday and Sunday, February 22 and 23, at the Rio Theater on Soquel Avenue in Santa Cruz. It begins at 7:30 p.m. both evenings with a different group of films each evening. A listing of the films to be shown can be found on the [UCSC Recreation Department][9] web site.

The [Banff Mountain Film Festival][10], presented by Eagle Creek Travel Gear and _National Geographic_ magazine, is an international competition featuring the world's best films and videos on mountain and adventure subjects. Last year, 250 films from 27 countries were submitted to the competition.

Local sponsors for the film festival are the UCSC Recreation Office, Bugaboo Mountain Sports, and Pacific Edge. Proceeds from the film festival benefit the UCSC Wilderness Orientation Scholarship Program and the UCSC Recreation Adventure Outings Scholarship Fund.

Tickets are$9/general admission and $7/students and can be purchased at Bugaboo Mountain Sports, (831) 429-6300, Pacific Edge Climbing Gym, (831) 454-9254, and the UCSC Box Office (831) 459-2159 ($1 service charge).  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][11]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][12] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][13]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][14]  

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/student/multicult.html
[2]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/student/mccalumni.html
[3]: http://www.multiculturalsummit.org
[4]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/counsel
[5]: mailto:martaelenacorona@aol.com
[6]: http://www.agroecology.org
[7]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2003/feb13art1.htm
[8]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/worldcom/complaint.pdf
[9]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/banff.html
[10]: http://www.banffcentre.ca/mountainculture/about/film.htm
[11]: ../../construction.html
[12]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[13]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[14]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-17/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
