---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/porter_eric.140.jpg
    - caption: "Eric Porter Photo: Ann M. Gibb"
---

Awards and Honors

American studies professor Eric Porter receives 2003 American Book Award

Eric Porter, associate professor of American studies, has been honored with an American Book Award from the [Before Columbus Foundation][1] for his work [_What Is This Thing Called Jazz?][2]_ (UC Press, 2002). The book details the ideas and experiences of members of the African American jazz community over the past century, exploring issues of race, economics, and politics that resound through the decades of jazz history.  

The Before Columbus Foundation was founded in 1976 as a nonprofit educational and service organization dedicated to the promotion and dissemination of contemporary American multicultural literature. The American Book Awards were created to recognize outstanding literary achievement from the entire spectrum of the country's diverse literary community. Award winners are nominated and chosen by a panel of writers, editors, and publishers who themselves represent the diversity of American literary culture. The winners range from renowned and established writers, to underrecognized and first-time authors.  
  
Porter joins 12 other honorees this year, including Daniel Ellsberg, for his book_ Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers_ (Viking); Kevin Baker, for _Paradise Alley_ (HarperCollins); and Alejandro Murguia for _This War Called Love: Nine Stories_ (City Lights Publishers).   

The 2003 American Book Award winners will be formally recognized during ceremonies at the Oakland Art and Soul Festival's Literature Expo scheduled for August 31.   
_back to top_

Harry Noller receives more honors  

Harry Noller, the Sinsheimer Professor of Molecular Biology, has been in great demand as a speaker on account of his groundbreaking research on the structure and function of the ribosome, a critical component of all living cells.  
In fact, he has had to turn down many requests to speak at universities around the country due to time constraints. This spring, Noller accepted two distinguished lectureships. In April, he gave the Carl and Gerty Cori Lecture at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. In May, he delivered the Ada Doisy Lecture in Biochemistry at the University of Illinois. Also this spring, Noller was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology. An honorific leadership group, the academy recognizes excellence, originality, and creativity in all areas of microbiological research.  
_back to top_

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://www.greatnorthwestbooks.com/a_authors/a_BCF.html
[2]: http://www.ucpress.edu/books/pages/9426.html
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/08-04/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
