---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2015
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Research by <b>Mara Mather</b> of psychology made a media splash, appearing in <i>USA Today</i> and the <i>Pittsburgh Post-Gazette,</i> among other newspapers. Mather, with colleagues at UC Irvine and Stanford, found that older people appear to be wired in ways that accentuate positive memories that foster good feelings.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Steven Vogt</b> was quoted in a <i>USA Today</i> article about the search for habitable planets outside the solar system.
</p>
<p>
  National Public Radio's <i>Weekend Edition</i> broadcast an interview with American folk music icon Rosalie Sorrells, describing the donation of her archives to UCSC at a celebratory concert that took place in February at <b>McHenry Library's Special Collections</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies was quoted in a <i>Salinas Californian</i> article about the U.S. public-relations challenges in Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein.
</p>
<p>
  A study of asteroid impact tsunamis by geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> and planetary scientist <b>Erik Asphaug</b> continued to garner interest, with stories appearing on the web at <i>Discovery News, ABC Science Online, Times of India, Astrobiology Magazine,</i> <i>Astronomy.com, Sci Fi Today,</i> and <i>Astronomy News</i>. Ward was also interviewed on KMOX Radio in St. Louis.
</p>
<p>
  A recent two-day conference sponsored by the <b>UCSC Santa Cruz Center for International Economics</b> was covered by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i> The gathering brought together leading economic analysts to discuss financial instability in Latin America.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Baton Rouge Sunday Advocate</i> noted that photographs by assistant professor of art <b>Lewis Watts</b> would be featured at a major exhibition of African American art in Baton Rouge.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research by <b>Ali Shakouri,</b> associate professor of electrical engineering, on direct thermal to electric energy conversion technology.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> profiled work by <b>John Borrego</b> of community studies who each year encourages his students to learn about globalization by examining its impacts on the Watsonville community.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Business Journal</i> published an article about the new book, <i>Beyond Superwoman,</i> coauthored by women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin.</b> The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also ran a feature article about the book in its Sunday edition.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ira Pohl,</b> professor and chair of computer science, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about a federal grant to support graduate students in the department.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> tapped <b>Orin Martin,</b> manager of the Alan Chadwick Garden, for tips on growing citrus on the Central Coast.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury</i> <i>News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published articles about the retirement of UCSC Librarian <b>Allan Dyson</b> after 24 years of service.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> ran a story about the Center for Stock Assessment Research run by UCSC's <b>Marc Mangel,</b> professor of applied math and statistics, and Alec MacCall at the Santa Cruz National Marine Fisheries Service laboratory.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Classics professor <b>Karen Bassi</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a gift from UCSC alumnus <b>Mark Engel</b> to enrich the library collection in classical studies through the establishment of the Norman O. Brown Classics Endowment.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/06-09/news.html "Permalink to news")
