---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/chemers_martin.150.jpg
    - caption: "Martin Chemers Photo: Jennifer McNulty"
---

Awards and Honors

Dean Chemers honored by social psychologists  

Martin Chemers, a professor of psychology and dean of the Division of Social Sciences, will be honored by the members of the Society for Personality and Social Psychology (SPSP) at their annual meeting on Feb. 6, 2003.  

Chemers is being recognized for his service to the 3,700-member organization, the largest organization of social and personality psychologists in the world. He will receive one of two inaugural awards for service to the society in recognition of his contributions during the 1980s and 1990s.   

Chemers served on the executive committee of SPSP for more than a decade, including stints as managing editor of the society's publications, as secretary-treasurer, and as a member of the publications committee. He founded _Dialogue,_ the society's newsletter, in the early 1980s and was its first editor, and he was instrumental in the development of publishing contracts that improved the society's financial standing, according to James Blascovich, president of the society and chair of the Psychology Department at UC Santa Barbara.   

The society supports research in personality and social psychology. The organization publishes two academic journals, hosts an annual conference, and works with science advocacy offices in the American Psychological Association and the American Psychological Society. The 2003 SPSP conference will be held February 6-8 in Los Angeles.  
_Back to top_

Margarita Azmitia elected fellow of American Psychological Association

Psychology professor Margarita Azmitia has been honored by her peers who have elected her a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA).

APA fellows are selected for their "exceptional and outstanding contributions to the research, teaching, or practice of psychology" and are recognized for the national impact of their work.  

Azmitia is a developmental psychologist whose research addresses three areas. First, she explores how family, school, and peers influence the academic achievement and psychological development of children and adolescents during the transition from elementary school to junior high school and from high school to college. She is particularly interested in understanding the factors that contribute to successful and unsuccessful transitions and developmental pathways of children and adolescents from different socioeconomic backgrounds and ethnicities. Her second line of research investigates whether and how working collaboratively helps children and adolescents learn in the classroom. Her final research area focuses on friendship processes, especially conflict resolution, as they affect children and adolescents' self-esteem and enjoyment of school.   
  
With more than 155,000 members, the APA is the largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the United States. Its membership includes researchers, educators, clinicians, consultants, and students. The association works to advance psychology as a science, as a profession, and as a means of promoting human welfare.  
_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-03/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
