---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

The Mexico City newspapers _El Universal_ and _La Jornada_ covered a recent event at the Smithsonian's Wilson Center in Washington, D.C., that heralded the publication of _Cross-Border Dialogues,_ coauthored by **Jonathan Fox** of Latin American and Latino studies.

Assistant professor of philosophy **Julie Tannenbaum** had an article published in the (U.K.)_ Guardian_ examining whether British Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bush deceived the public over the threat posed by Saddam Hussein in Iraq.

Malaysia's _New Straits Times_ quoted history of consciousness professor **Donna Haraway** in an article about robots, cyborgs, and the merging of man and machine.   

**Pete Raimondi,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a _Monterey Herald_ story about the potential ecological impacts of a major oil fire at the Moss Landing Power Plant.

The _Los Angeles Times_ covered research by **Erika Zavaleta** of environmental studies that measured the impact of climate and atmospheric changes on grassland diversity in California.   

_Newsweek_ reviewed the new book _Longing to Tell: Black Women Talk About Sexuality and Intimacy_ by American studies professor** Tricia Rose,** who was also quoted in an _Ebony_ magazine article about relationships.

Research on the mating behavior of lizards by **Barry Sinervo,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was reported on several online news sites, including _National Geographic News_ and _Environmental News Network._

The _Contra Costa Times_ reported on forensic anthropologist **Alison Galloway**'s involvement in the discovery of Indian bones during a construction project in Danville.  

Film and Digital Media Department chair **Chip Lord** was quoted in the_ Ottawa Citizen_ and the _Milwaukee Journal Sentinel_ about the passing of avant-garde architect/designer Doug Michels.  

The _San Jose Mercury_ _News_ and _Register Pajaronian_ ran feature articles on Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director **Risa Brainin** and the summer festival.  

**Bill Domhoff** of sociology penned an opinion piece, "Can Radicals Be Liberals, Too?," for _In These Times.com._

**Michelle Witt,** director of Arts & Lectures, and **Marcus Cato,** managing director of Shakespeare Santa Cruz, were quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about the role of the audience in a performing arts event.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ reported on the creation of a new book arts award in the UCSC **Art Department** by community artists Peter and Donna Thomas.

The Associated Press, _Miami Herald,_ and _Orlando Sentinel_ noted the death of **Victor Perera,** a former UCSC lecturer in literature, writing, and journalism from 1972 to 1979.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-21/news.html "Permalink to news")
