---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Marine ecologist Jim Estes is featured in an article about the Alaska coast in the August issue of _National Geographic _magazine, along with researcher Tim Tinker. Estes was also quoted in a recent story in the _San Jose Mercury News_ about new estimates of historic whale populations.

The _Baltimore Sun_ quoted theater arts professor Mark Franko and cited his book _The Work of Dance: Labor, Movement, and Identity in the 1930's,_ for an article about using dance as a form of political protest.   

Astrophysicist Stan Woosley was featured in a story in the _Chronicle of Higher Education_ about the link between gamma ray bursts and supernovae.  

American studies professor Tricia Rose was quoted in a _Denver Post_ article about the widespread appeal of hip-hop and black culture across the world. Her new book, _Longing to Tell,_ was also reviewed in the _Washington Post._

The _Salinas Californian_ ran a review of botanist Jean Langenheim's new book, _Plant Resins: Chemistry, Evolution, Ecology, Ethnobotany. _

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ interviewed astronomer Greg Laughlin for a story about the exceptional view of Mars in the night sky this month as the red planet makes its closest approach to Earth in 50,000 years.  

Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director Risa Brainin was cited in reviews of the company's production of _Hamlet,_ published in the _San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News_, and _Monterey Herald._

The _San Francisco Chronicle_ reported on research by Jean Brodie, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, that revealed a dwarf galaxy being disrupted and stripped of its stars by a giant spiral galaxy. The story also ran in the _Seattle Post Intelligencer._  

Gary Glatzmaier, professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a story about the Earth's magnetic field in the _Mid-County Post._  
  
Literature professor Carla Freccero was quoted in the _Guardian UK_ about Marvel Comics' new gay comic book character, _The Rawhide Kid. _

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/08-18/news.html "Permalink to news")
