---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3189
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin</b> was quoted in a <i>Salinas Californian</i> article after being named Outstanding Philanthropist of the Year, along with her husband, <b>Jack Baskin,</b> by the Monterey Bay chapter of the Association of Fundraising Professionals.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Ken Kletzer</b> fielded a call from <i>Latin Finance Magazine</i> about collective action clauses.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jim Kent,</b> a research scientist at the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering (CBSE), was quoted in a story about human genome data in <i>Wired Online.</i> Kent and CBSE director <b>David Haussler</b> were also featured in a story in the <i>Fort Collins Coloradan</i> about a pair of lectures Haussler gave recently at Colorado State University.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Don Brenneis</b> discussed the field of anthropology with the <i>Chicago Tribune</i> during the American Anthropological Association's annual meeting recently.
</p>
<p>
  Stories continue to appear about a new study coauthored by <b>Jim Estes,</b> adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, suggesting that the whaling industry has had dramatic long-term effects on ocean ecosystems. Estes was most recently quoted in an Associated Press story that appeared in the <i>Washington Post</i> and <i>Newsday.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Politics professor <b>Ronnie Gruhn</b> was a guest on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program, speaking with host Deanna Zachary about President Bush's claims about the growth of democracy and economic development around the globe.
</p>
<p>
  Another study that keeps getting press attention is geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b>'s description of the tsunami that would be generated by an asteroid crashing into the ocean, most recently covered in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies was tapped for his water expertise by the <i>Monterey County Herald,</i> which covered an idea to recover water from the oil fields of southern Monterey County.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of literature <b>Christopher Connery</b> was cited in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about a new UCSC program he designed to send humanities graduate students into local schools.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Los Angeles Time</i>s story about the maturing field of environmental studies quoted UCSC prof <b>Daniel Press.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Paul Skenazy</b> contributed several book reviews to the <i>Washington Post.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the high cost of living on the Central Coast.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of computer engineering <b>Kevin Karplus</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> in a story about the new graduate degrees in bioinformatics now offered at UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Kansas City Star</i> cited history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> in an article about prison industries.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about caves and cave exploring in the Santa Cruz area featured <b>Greg Stock,</b> an Earth sciences graduate student and cave expert.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>Leta Miller</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the Ariose Singers, a 16-member a cappella group that she directs.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-01/news.html "Permalink to news")
