---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/plant_sale.200.jpg
    - caption: "New ornamentals and edibles will be offered this year at the Farm & Garden plant sale. Photo: Marci Krass"
  -
    - file: ../art/shuttle_image.jpg
    - caption: "One of the shuttle images Julian Christou was able to enhance for NASA"
---

More News

New offerings highlight selection at annual UCSC Farm & Garden Plant Sale May 3-4  

The inspiring selection of organic plants for sale at the Farm & Garden's annual spring plant sale will be even greater this year with the addition of several new ornamentals and edibles.  

The plant sale will take place on Saturday and Sunday, May 3-4, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Barn Theater parking lot at the base of campus.  

Among the highlights of this year's new offerings are:

* Big Leaf Maple, _Acer macrophyllum_. Grown from seed collected below the Chadwick Garden.
* Good King Henry, _Chenopodium bonus henricus._ A European native related to beets, spinach, and chard, Good King Henry is an edible green with a spinach- or quinoa-like texture and flavor.   
* Ivy Leaf Sage, Blue Vine Sage, _Salvia cacaliaefolia._ Native to Chiapas State in Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras, this salvia's blue flowers rise right out of the top of the lush green foliage.  
* _Lavandula x intermedia,_ "Seal" and "Super": These relatively large lavender cultivars grow to 3 1/2 x 3 1/2 feet and feature long, soft, slender, blue-gray foliage and a relatively dense canopy if well pruned.
* Monkshood, _Aconitum arendsii._ This delphinium relative sports gorgeous, deep-purple flowers and can throw a 4 - 5-foot-high flower spike.   
* Penstemon _grinnelli_. A striking penstemon with vibrant silvery-blue foliage and broad iridescent lavender-blue flowers in summer.   

As always, a wide selection of organically raised plants will be available, including more than 200 species of vegetables, annual flowers, perennials, herbs, and "everlastings," or dried flowers. All plants are proven to grow well in the local area.   

Sponsored by the Friends of the Farm & Garden and the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems, the sale will benefit the UCSC Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture. Members of the Friends will receive early entry from 9 to 10 a.m. on Saturday only and a 10 percent discount on purchases; memberships will be available at the sale beginning at 8:30 a.m. For more information, call (831) 459-3240.  
_back to top_   

AHR offers information sessions for assistant professors

Academic Human Resources will hold information sessions for assistant professors on Tuesday, May 20, from 3 to 5 p.m. and on Wednesday, May 21, from 10 a.m. to noon. Both meetings will take place in Room 325, McHenry Library. It is only necessary to attend one session.  

These sessions are intended to help assistant professors understand some  
of the policies and procedures in academic personnel reviews. To register, contact Nancy Furber, Academic Human Resources, at (831) 459-4779 or [furber@ucsc.edu][1].  
_back to top_   

Adaptive optics researcher aids space shuttle investigation  

Julian Christou, a research specialist at UCSC's Center for Adaptive Optics, used his image processing skills to help NASA in its investigation of the space shuttle _Columbia_ disaster.

_Columbia_ broke up during reentry on February 1, killing all seven astronauts aboard.

Christou, who has done pioneering work on a method of image processing called "blind deconvolution," contacted former colleagues at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico in February to see if he could help enhance images of the shuttle.   

The Air Force referred Christou to NASA, which sent him two photos taken at Kirtland two minutes before the shuttle broke up. Using his blind deconvolution technique, Christou was able to make the images much clearer for investigators.  

"It was very helpful," said Lt. Col. Woody Woodyard, spokesman for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board.   

The investigation board has been examining the photos for anything out of the ordinary, Woodyard said.   

The enhanced images were discussed in the investigation board's March 18 [press briefing][2]. They were also featured in an article about the investigation that appeared in _Aviation Week and Space Technology.  
__back to top_   

U.S. agriculture is focus of series of panel discussions

Make informed decisions about personal food choices and learn more about agricultural public policy and how to get involved in sustainable agriculture advocacy. The UCSC Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems is holding a series of panel discussions during the next few weeks, titled Critical Perspectives on the U.S. Agro-Food System. The discussions have three aims:

* To provide undergraduate students and the broader campus community with a historical context for current issues in the U.S. food and agricultural system;
* To introduce the most significant social and environmental risks and consequences associated with the development of U.S. agriculture; and
* To introduce the various concepts of sustainable agriculture, the work of the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems, and anticipated directions for sustainable agriculture's development.

The first session, the Shaping of the U.S. Agro-Food System, will take place on Wednesday, April 30, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in Room 240, College Eight. The panel will be Bill Friedland, professor emeritus of community studies, and Andrew Marshall, a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Environmental Studies. Friedland's research interests include the political economy of agriculture and globalization; Marshall's interests include alternative and community food systems, political economy of agricultural biotechnology, and U.S. agricultural policy.

Subsequent panels will be held on May 7, 14, and 21, all in Room 240 at College Eight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. For more information, contact Martha Brown at [mtbrown@ucsc.edu][3].   
_back to top_

Recreation Department invites you to stargaze, drum under the stars, and make sushi

The Recreation Department is offering two evening classes. Sign up through the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806. Other offerings are listed on the recreation [web site][4].   

**Astronomy Workshop:** Tuesday, April 29, 7 to 11 p.m. OPERS Conference Room. An evening of stargazing. Constellation mythology and lore, the basics of observational astronomy, "cosmic ecology," and information on resources and equipment are covered first at an indoor lecture-discussion, followed by viewing constellations, planets, galaxies and nebulae (weather permitting). Bring binoculars (if you have them), and warm, layered clothing. Instructor is Joe Jordan. Cost: $10/UCSC students, $15/general.

**New Moon Drum Circles:** Thursday, May 1, 8:30 to 10 p.m., in the Multipurpose Room, East Field House. Hand drumming is used all over the world as a tool for unity and elevation of the spirit. And the new moon is a natural time to refresh and begin anew. Join the New Moon Drum Circle, a campuswide rhythmic celebration of community, creativity, and camaraderie. No experiences necessary. Some instruments provided; bring your own if you have any. Facilitator is Don Davidson. Cost: $5/UCSC students, $10/general.

**Sensational Sushi:** May 3, 8, and 31, from noon to 3 p.m. (three separate classes) OPERS Conference Room, East Field House. SUSHI NOW! owner chef Matisse Selman will teach the art of sushi rolling, eating, and proper etiquette, whether at home or at your favorite sushi bar. Great selections for vegetarians and fish lovers alike. Participants will sit down to a feast and then help clean up. Sign up in advance. Cost: $28; add $5 if not a UCSC student or Wellness Card holder.  
_back to top_

Women at Work Retreat is sponsoring group tickets for Shakespeare Santa Cruz  

The Women at Work Retreat is again this year sponsoring group tickets for staff and faculty for [Shakespeare Santa Cruz][5] plays. The group rate is available for three Friday evening performances in August, at a cost of $18 per ticket.

The reduced-price tickets are available for the following performances:

* August 8 at 8 p.m., Festival Glen, [_Comedy of Errors][6]  
_
* August 15 at 8 p.m., Festival Glen, [_Hamlet][7]  
_
* August 22 at 8 p.m., Theater Arts Mainstage, [_Private Lives][8]_

To order tickets, print out the [order form][9] and send it, along with your check, to Diana Sue Miller, c/o of Central Purchasing. Tickets will be available for pickup in early August. For more information, call Diana Sue Miller at (831) 459-2882.  
_back to top_

Coolidge Drive stoplight set to begin operation soon

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][10]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][11] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][12]_back to top_

  

[Return to Front Page][13]  

[1]: mailto:furber@ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www.caib.us/news/press_briefings/
[3]: mailto:mtbrown@ucsc.edu
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/index.html
[5]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/
[6]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer03/comedy.shtml
[7]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer03/hamlet.shtml
[8]: http://www.shakespearesantacruz.org/summer03/private.shtml
[9]: order_form_w@w.html
[10]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[11]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[12]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[13]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-28/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
