---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/housing_lottery.180.jpg
    - caption: "Staff Advisory Board member Rachel Huff posts another name on the board as staff names are drawn in UCSC's lottery for housing on campus. Photo: Louise Donahue"
  -
    - file: ../art/looking_at_boiler.200.jpg
    - caption: "Engine specialist Mark Sine shows a class of third graders around the Fackler Cogeneration Plant."
---

More News

Campus holds first housing lottery

Twenty eight non-Senate academics and 100 staff members were winners in UCSC's first housing lottery.  

Before the names were drawn in a Merrill Dining Hall ceremony on July 15, Faculty and Staff Housing manager Steve Houser noted that 252 applications were received. Of those, 10 were found to be ineligible and 11 withdrew their names from consideration. Of the remaining 231, Houser said, 203 were staff members.  

Initial plans called for drawing the names of 50 staff members and 15 nonsenate academics, but Houser announced that the numbers would be doubled to give current employees a better chance of getting a spot. That meant that all the non-Senate academics who applied made the list.  

The housing most likely to be available soon is in Hagar Court, where apartments are being converted to condominiums. Fifty units are expected to be ready during 2003.   

Additional information on housing for sale is available from the [Faculty and Staff Housing Office][1] web site and from earlier [Currents stories.][2]_  
__back to top_

UCSC hosts conference on UC College Prep Initiative

Campus Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor John Simpson delivered the opening remarks for a three-day online teaching institute sponsored by the [UC College Prep Initiative][3] (UCCP) that drew more than 125 teachers from across the state.  

The institute, held July 16-18 at the UCSC Inn and Conference Center,   
offered educators affordable, practical training in the effective use of technology to increase academic access and achievement among students.   

The institute covered a range of subjects, including mentoring students, online teaching, web site development, and computer networks. Leaders encouraged participants to integrate online teaching and learning in a single classroom as part of a school's technology plan.  

UCCP is a Santa Cruz-based UC program that provides online college preparatory courses, content, test preparation, and academic support free of charge to students and teachers from eligible schools. UCCP develops online college preparatory courses that are aligned with California content standards and fulfill UC admission requirements. UCCP has reached more than 8,000 students statewide.  
_back to top_

Exclusive early ticketing period for Arts & Lectures  

UCSC's Arts & Lectures offers an exclusive early ticketing period for members only from July 14 to 28. The new 2003-04 season features 23 performances and the lineup can be found [online][4]. The early ticketing period for subscribers will run from August 1 to 31. For more information, contact the UCSC Ticket Office at (831) 459-2159.

Third-graders tour Fackler Cogeneration Plant

Third graders from Spring Hill School came to campus recently to tour the Fackler Cogeneration Plant as part of their study of power generation. They were the first elementary school group to visit the facility.

The students were accompanied by their teacher, Jennifer Riddle, who arranged the tour with Rachel Huff, business coordinator for Building and Utility Services.

Mark Sine, a Cogen engine specialist, took the children around the plant, showing them the switchgear, which operates the campus electrical grid; the campus boilers, which heat the water for heating the core campus buildings; and the Cogen engine, which provides power to two-third's of the campus, in parallel with PG&E.

Sine answered tough questions from the students, including, What is PG&E?; What is that phone (the intercom between campus substations) for?; What are the radios for?; and, Are we getting earplugs?

The students each left with their earplugs and a packet of UCSC souvenirs assembled especially for them by Jim West, senior superintendent of Building and Utility Services.   
_back to top_

Farm offers workshop in building garden structures

Thomas Wittman of the UCSC Farm & Garden and Molino Creek Farming Collective will share his knowledge and plans for gazebos, benches, trellises, garden sheds, and more at a workshop titled "Building Garden Structures." The workshop will take place on Saturday, July 26, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Louise Cain Gatehouse at the Farm.

The cost is $15 for members of the Friends of the Farm & Garden, $25 for nonmembers, payable at the workshop. Call (831) 459-3240 for more information. The event is sponsored by the [Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems][5].  
_back to top_

Construction update

Currents provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][8]_back to top_

  

[Return to Front Page][9]  

[1]: http://www.housing.ucsc.edu/housing/forsale.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/07-07/housing.html
[3]: http://www.uccp.org/
[4]: http://events.ucsc.edu/artslecs
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/casfs
[6]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-21/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
