---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1981
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> of psychology was quoted extensively in a recent article in <i>The Nation</i> about the psychological consequences of confinement in supermaximum security prisons. Haney also appeared on a PBS <i>Frontline</i> documentary called "Burden of Innocence," discussing the psychological obstacles faced by people who have been exonerated for crimes they did not commit and then return to the free world. Haney was also interviewed numerous times by a writer preparing a story for the <i>New York Times Magazine</i> about death penalty cases and the importance of studying the backgrounds and social histories of defendants.
</p>
<p>
  Postdoctoral researcher <b>Mark Kessler</b>'s research on the forces that create patterned ground was the subject of a long article in <i>Science News</i> magazine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An <i>ABC News</i> online story about a proposal for a scientific probe to explore Earth's interior included quotes from <b>Gary Glatzmaier,</b> professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Dan Wirls</b> of politics was quoted in an op-ed about alliances between the Bush administration and religious groups that appeared in the weekly online edition of Australia's <i>Green Left.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Ecologist <b>Bruce Lyon</b>'s research on the nesting behavior of coots was featured in a news story in <i>National Wildlife</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  A new videotape by sociologist <b>Dane Archer</b> was the subject of a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the gender gap in communication.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Pete Raimondi</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about efforts to preserve tide pools and protect the creatures that live in them from growing hordes of visitors.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Nancy Stoller</b> of community studies was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the large number of women in prison.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about UCSC being ranked first in the nation for the impact of faculty research in space sciences quoted <b>Stan Woosley,</b> professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-26/news.html "Permalink to news")
