---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3135
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Faye Crosby</b> was interviewed by a <i>New York Times</i> reporter for a story about executive mentoring.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chicago Tribune</i> ran a feature article on <i>Beyond Superwoman,</i> the recent book coauthored by women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Daniel Costa,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was mentioned the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> in stories about the Census of Marine Life, an international effort to understand the full diversity of ocean life.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Susan Harding</b> was quoted in a <i>USA Today</i> article about a split within the Episcopal Church over gay rights.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the New Teacher Center spoke with a <i>Chicago</i> magazine reporter about teacher burnout.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research led by <b>James Zachos,</b> professor of Earth sciences, to characterize a major episode of global warming that took place 55 million years ago.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was quoted in an <i>Arkansas Democrat-Gazette</i> article about the factors parents consider when deciding whether to send their children to public or private schools.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> story about asteroid research.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Wellman</b> of community studies was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about a proposal to rename San Jose's King Road in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Art lecturer <b>Paul Rangell</b> was quoted in <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> articles about being honored as 2003 Distinguished Artist of the Year by the Santa Cruz Art League.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/11-03/news.html "Permalink to news")
