---
layout: post
title: "Academic Senate meeting on Oct. 24"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3114
images:
---

<p>
  UCSC's <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/">Academic Senate</a> will meet on Friday, Oct. 24, from 2:30 to 5 p.m., at the Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room. Academic Senate chair Alison Galloway's letter to Senate members follows:<br>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues;<br>
</p>
<p>
  It is customary at the beginning of each year for the Senate Chair to welcome everyone and extend best wishes for the coming year. While we all may hope for a smooth and fruitful year ahead, the circumstances suggest that we face one of difficult and painful decisions. As the fiscal crisis in the state continues, it is likely that higher education, including the University of California, will bear the brunt of many of the cuts.<br>
</p>
<p>
  At UCSC, the Executive Budget Committee process has resulted in recommendations that promise to decrease permanent expenses as well as increase some revenues. These measures, however, may be insufficient to mitigate further losses in state revenue. The academic mission has been largely protected up to this point but may be the only remaining area in which savings can be found. The Senate must be proactive in working with the administration to ensure the values we consider most critical are protected and still identify ways in which savings can be generated.<br>
</p>
<p>
  While facing cuts on one hand, we are also set to embark on a reassessment of our long range development plans. Crucial questions of if and how we plan to grow, the type of campus and student population we envision for the next 20 years, and where to best accommodate any growth will need to be addressed.<br>
</p>
<p>
  This year will be a challenge for all of us and will require an inordinate level of understanding and cooperation. I encourage everyone to attend the Senate meeting as well as other Senate functions and extend my gratitude to all those who have agreed to serve on Senate committees this academic year.<br>
</p>
<p>
  After the meeting, please join the Chancellor and me for a reception at the University Center, just upstairs from the meeting.
</p>
<p>
  Sincerely,
</p>
<p>
  Alison Galloway, Chair<br>
  Academic Senate<br>
  Santa Cruz Division
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Senate agenda is available <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/03Oct/A03oct.htm">online.</a></i>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-20/senate.html "Permalink to senate")
