---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Chancellor **M.R.C. Greenwood** was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article on the $500,000 the campus has raised recently for student scholarships.** Kenneth Feingold,** chair of the UC Santa Cruz Foundation, also talked to the reporter about alumni contributions.

Economist **David Kaun** fielded numerous interview requests about the recall election, including a query from _Semana_ magazine in Bogota, Colombia. He also appeared on radio stations KAAA and KZZZ in Bullhead City, Arizona; WHAS in Louisville, Kentucky; WPKN in Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Radio Free Santa Cruz locally.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story on the success the men's soccer team is having this season--they're [ranked no. 13][1] in the NCAA Division III. Senior **Dan Chamberlain, **junior **Eric Bucchere, **and** ** coach** Paul Holocher **were interviewed for the story.

**Susanne Jonas** of Latin American and Latino studies was interviewed by the _Orange County Register_ for a story about Guatemalan immigrant communities in the United States.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and the _Register-Pajaronian_ ran articles about the first **Master of Fine Arts** degree program in Digital Arts/New Media to be offered at UCSC.   

Sociology's **Craig Reinarman** has appeared on local television several times to discuss medical marijuana.

Music Department lecturer **Peter Elsea** was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about electronic music.  

Economist **Lori Kletzer** appeared on KUSP's _Talk of the Bay_ program to discuss trade liberalization and job loss.

The _Good Times_ extensively quoted associate professor of history **Dilip Basu** in an article about famed Indian film director Satyajit Ray.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ reported that UCSC received a $100,000 humanities grant for a five-week summer seminar for college teachers that will focus on the writing of Charles Dickens.  

The_ San Jose Mercury News_ noted two memorial events at UCSC to honor the late Mel Wong, professor of dance in the Theater Arts Department since 1989.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][2]  

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://goslugs.com/teams/soccer/men/msoc.html
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-20/news.html "Permalink to news")
