---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hitchcock_art.jpg
    - caption: "Constance, 2002, by Miriam Hitchcock. oil on wood, 8.5 x 60 inches"
---

More News

Faculty artwork on display at Sesnon Gallery  

"Faculty Works: 2003," an exhibit of the work of studio art lecturers, will be on display at the [Mary Porter Sesnon Art Gallery][1] and the Porter Faculty Gallery from February 25 through March 22. This is the second of a two-part show featuring painting photography, printmaking, drawing, sculpture, and intermedia web-based work. The exhibit includes artwork by Ken Alley, Susan Friedman, Don Fritz, Ingeborg Gerdes, Hanna Hannah, Miriam Hitchcock, Sean Monaghan, Jennifer Parker, Kathleen Perry, Ian Pollock, Rebecca Ramos, Paul Rangell, Alice Shaw, Susana Terrell, and Richard Wohlfeiler.  

There will be an opening reception on Tuesday, February 25, from 5 to 6:30 p.m.

Several members of the art faculty will be presenting talks about their work In conjunction with the exhibition:  

* Jennifer Parker & Kathleen Perry, Tuesday, March 4, 5 to 6 p.m.  
* Rebecca Ramos & Richard Wohlfeiler, Wednesday, March 12, 5 to 6 p.m.  

Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday, noon to 5 p.m. The gallery is located at Porter College and is wheelchair accessible. Admission is free.   
_Back to top_

Alumni will gather in Sacramento for UC Day in the Capitol  

UCSC and UC alumni will be meeting with legislators in Sacramento on key issues facing UCSC and the UC system on March 3 and 4 at UC Day in the Capitol.

UC Day is the one time of the year when all nine UC Alumni Associations come together with their alumni, donors, and friends to discuss with their elected representatives issues of concern to the university. It also is the only time when the UC systemwide "family" comes together in one room to acknowledge UC's academic excellence and its contribution to the state.

This year's theme is "It Starts Here." The latest Annual Financial Report gives specific examples of how UC continues to make a difference in the lives of all Californians. With severe state budget cuts looming, it is especially important for alumni participate in the March 4 appointments with legislators. Click on [delegate form][2].

Delegates' expenses for accommodations and travel to and from Sacramento are covered, as well as dinner on Monday night, and lunch on Tuesday. For more information, go to the [UC Day web site][3] , and for details specific to UCSC, call Allison Garcia at (831) 459-3966, or (800) 933-SLUG, or e-mail to [acgarcia@ucsc.edu][4]  
_Back to top_

Life of human rights activist Bayard Rustin is the subject of a documentary and discussion led by Paul Ortiz

The film "Brother Outsider: The Life of Bayard Rustin" will be screened on Wednesday, February 26, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Oakes College Room 105. Paul Ortiz, assistant professor in the Department of Community Studies and co-author of the award-winning book _Remembering Jim Crow: African Americans Tell About Life in the Segregated South,_ will lead a discussion on the film.  
  
Bayard Rustin is best remembered as the organizer of the 1963 March on Washington and for bringing Gandhi's protest techniques to the American Civil Rights Movement, and for helping Martin Luther King, Jr. become an international symbol of peace and nonviolence. The documentary focuses on Bayard Rustin's activism for peace, racial equality, economic justice, and human rights. The film also depicts how Rustin was silenced, threatened, arrested, beaten, imprisoned and fired from important leadership positions, largely because he was an openly gay man in a fiercely homophobic era.   

The event, which is sponsored by the GLBT Resource Center and Oakes College, is free and open to the public.

Dasmann memorial on TV

[Community TV][5] of Santa Cruz County (cable) will televise the memorial service for Professor Emeritus Raymond Dasmann, which was held on January 19. Dasmann, a founder of international environmentalism, died November 5 of pneumonia at the age of 83. Viewers can make their own videotape from the broadcast, or order a copy of the program from Community TV of Santa Cruz County (831-425-8848).

The schedule for the broadcast is as follows:  

* Wednesday, February 26, 8 to 10 p.m., Channel 25  
* Thursday, February 27, 8:30 to 10:30 p.m., Channel 26  
* Friday, February 28, 1 to 3 p.m., Channel 25  

_Back to top_

Book drive to benefit incarcerated women   

Students Supporting People in Transition (SSPIT) is having a book drive to benefit women in jail. SSPIT members will be located in front of the Bay Tree Bookstore the week of March 3 through 7 from noon to 4 p.m. accepting book donations.

Students Supporting People in Transition is a registered student organization with the goals of educating people on campus about the experiences of incarcerated women in Santa Cruz and providing direct support to women coming out of local jails.  
  
For more information or questions, e-mail SSPIT@quackquack.com.  
_Back to top_

European Cafe music will honor John Dizikes  

In a performance honoring John Dizikes, professor emeritus of American Studies, the group Trio Mundi will perform in the Page Smith Library at Cowell College on Wednesday, February 26. The public is invited to the 8 p.m. show; there is no admission charge.  
  
Trio Mundi--Janet Dows, Paul Rangell and Irene Herrmann--enjoys playing traditional and cafe music from around the world; the Ukraine, Italy, Puerto Rico, Finland, and New Mexico are a few regions that influence their music. They perform on concertina, mandolins, and guitars--a combination that lends itself to such a variety of ethnic styles.  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][6]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][7] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][8]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][9]  

[1]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/sesnon
[2]: http://www.ucday.org/
[3]: http://www.ucday.org
[4]: mailto:acgarcia@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://communitytv.org
[6]: ../../construction.html
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-24/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
