---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3083
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Nirvikar Singh</b> penned an op-ed for <i>The Independent</i> about India's economy in the global context.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> ran a full-page profile on associate professor of history <b>Dilip Basu</b> and his work with the UCSC Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection to preserve the renowned Indian film director's films and legacy.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ralph Berger,</b> emeritus professor of biology, was interviewed on NPR's <i>Morning Edition</i> by his former Ph.D. student, science correspondent Joe Palca. Palca's entertaining report on the 50th anniversary of the discovery of REM sleep can be heard online at <a href="http://www.npr.org/features/feature.php?wfId=1452236">NPR's web site</a>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies coauthored an opinion piece about Proposition 54 for the <i>San Jose Mercury News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Research on the legacy of industrial whaling and its impact on the ecosystem of the North Pacific has received widespread media attention. Marine ecologist <b>Jim Estes</b> and physiologist <b>Terrie Williams</b> were featured in stories in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, San Mateo County Times, Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Arizona Republic, Salem Statesman Journal, Independent</i> (London), <i>Belfast Telegraph, Sydney Morning Herald, New Zealand Herald, BBC News Online, Nature News Online, Discovery Channel Online,</i> and <i>ABC Science Online.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Kresge college provost/journalism lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> had an article published in <i>Foreign Policy in Focus</i> about the U.S. suit against the European Union over its moratorium on genetically modified foods<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Isaacson,</b> Kapany professor of optoelectronics, was interviewed by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Francisco Chronicle,</i> and KSBW TV for stories about UCSC's participation in a new national center that will focus on developing implantable devices to overcome disabilities such as blindness and paralysis. Stories about the new center also appeared in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News online.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a front page article on UCSC's selection of <b>William Patterson Jr.</b> to organize and promote the Robert Heinlein Archive, housed in McHenry Library's Special Collections.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Claire Max</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about her research on black holes.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Caroline Pomeroy,</b> a research scientist in the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in stories in the <i>Monterey Herald</i> and <i>Salinas Californian</i> about a report she coauthored on the role of the Moss Landing fishing industry in the local economy.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Assistant theater arts professor <b>David Cuthbert</b> was featured in a <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> article about theater and lighting design.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven War</b>d was quoted in a <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> article about the possibility of a tsunami on the East Coast.
</p>
<p>
  An article about memorial events to celebrate the life and art of the late <b>Mel Wong,</b> professor of dance in the Theater Arts Department since 1989, appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-06/news.html "Permalink to news")
