---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/rose.180.jpg
    - caption: "The Rose, by Aurelia Pezzi, is one of the paintings on display at the Arboretum."
---

May l2, 2003

More News

Spring celebration of the arts at the Arboretum May 18   

Jazz, opera, dance, sculpture, 3-D art, literary readings, Latin American songs, and Shakespearean theater will emanate from the tranquil gardens of the Arboretum on Sunday, May 18, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. It's all part of "Art in the Arboretum," the annual spring celebration of creativity held on the university campus. Admission is free.

Renowned choreographer and artist Mel Wong will lead dancers from the Theater Arts Department in a performance of excerpts from his work _Swan Pond._ Voces, the Latin American music ensemble directed by Diana Nieves, will perform a variety of compositions, accompanied by such instruments as the "zamponas" and "golpe." Shakespeare To Go will also offer a 50-minute abridged version of _Hamlet._   

The public is invited to wander among the 3-D art and sculpture by visual arts students, which will be exhibited indoors and around the grounds. And for those gastronomically inclined, local favorite "India Joze" Schultz will demonstrate his culinary skill in the garden.   

In addition, UCSC literature and writing faculty members Charles Atkinson, Sesshu Foster, Roxanne Hamilton, K. Silem Mohammad, and Rob Wilson will read from their works in the Arboretum amphitheater. Rebecca Hope Stuhlbarg, conductor of the UCSC Madrigal Singers, will sing opera arias. And "Jed the Beetle God" Ford and Friends will welcome visitors with a bit of morning jazz.  

The Arboretum is located on Empire Grade halfway between the main and west entrances to the UCSC campus. Parking will be available in the eucalyptus grove, and a free shuttle will operate between the parking lot and the Arboretum. For more information, contact Steve McCabe at (831) 427-2998.  
_back to top_   

Faculty share expertise with alumni at May events  

Chancellor Greenwood will join UCSC faculty members at alumni events in Los Angeles and San Francisco in May. Film and digital media professor Eli Hollander will attend the Los Angeles chapter's "galactic alumni event" with the chancellor on May 17, where he will introduce the featured speaker, Brannon Braga (Crown '90), executive producer of _Star Trek._ The chancellor and sociology professor Paul Lubek will join San Francisco alumni for a dinner and Lubeck will discuss "Globalization and Islamic Movements: Prospects for a Democratic Alterternative" on May 21. Earlier this month, the chancellor joined David Haussler, director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, who spoke in San Jose on "Mapping the Human Genome: Behind the Headlines."

May is also a busy month for UCSC alumni events around the country, with Pulitzer Prize-winning writing lecturer Martha Mendoza speaking in Boston and New York, politics professor Isebill (Ronnie) Gruhn speaking in Washington, D.C., and philosophy professor John Doris talking in San Diego about his new book,_ Lack of Character: Personality and Moral Behavior_. Details on each event are listed online under the "Events Calendar" on the UCSC [Alumni Association Online Community][1] web site.  
_back to top_   

AHR offers information sessions for assistant professors

Academic Human Resources will hold information sessions for assistant professors on Tuesday, May 20, from 3 to 5 p.m. and on Wednesday, May 21, from 10 a.m. to noon. Both meetings will take place in Room 325, McHenry Library. It is only necessary to attend one session.  

These sessions are intended to help assistant professors understand some  
of the policies and procedures in academic personnel reviews. To register, contact Nancy Furber, Academic Human Resources, at (831) 459-4779 or [furber@ucsc.edu][2].  
_back to top_   

Draft EIR Scoping Meeting for Ranch View Terrace Project to be held May 14   
  
The University of California is preparing a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) for the Ranch View Terrace project, which will be located on the northern portion of Inclusion Area "D" on the south UCSC campus. The Ranch View Terrace project will provide a total of 95 residential units (21 rental units and 74 for-sale units) to serve UCSC faculty and staff.  

An EIR Scoping Meeting will be held on May 14 between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., at the La Feliz Room at Long Marine Laboratory (LML), located at 100 Shaffer Road (at the end of Delaware Avenue) in Santa Cruz. Parking will be available at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center at LML. At this meeting, public agencies and members of the public are invited to provide oral comments on the range of issues to be addressed in the Draft EIR. Call Christine Aldecoa at (831) 460-3573 for additional information or to request accommodations for persons with disabilities.  
_back to top_

Cardiac Pacer 5-mile run May 17

The OPERS Intramural Sports Program will hold the 57th running of the Cardiac Pacer 5 Miler, a scenic cross-country style run, on Saturday, May 17. The run begins at 10 a.m. at the East Field track; entry cost is $2. For more information, call (831) 459-4220 or send e-mail to [kdgivens@ucsc.edu.][3]  
_back to top_

Arrange campus trips through UCLA Travel Center  

Beginning May 15, airfare arrangements for campus trips must be made through the UCLA Travel Center--unless a lower fare can be found elsewhere--for any travel to be paid from state "19900" funds.  

The Travel Center's services include the State Fares program, offering specially contracted airfares negotiated by the State of California with both Southwest Airlines and United Airlines. These fares require only a minimum 24-hour advance booking and may be changed or canceled for a nominal charge. UCLA Travel Center also offers discounts on rental cars, hotel accommodations, and airport parking. Airfare bookings will be automatically charged to the traveler's department.

"The UCLA Travel Center offers multiple advantages to travelers such as convenience, flexibility, and low rates. I believe the implementation and use of this program will improve our current travel system and provide us with added cost savings, which is especially important given the current budget situation," said Tom Vani, vice chancellor of Business and Administrative Services. Additional information is available at the [UCSC Travel and Entertainment][4] web site. _  
__back to top_

Coolidge Drive stoplight begins operation

The stoplight on Coolidge Drive near the base of campus was activated Monday morning. [Construction update story][5]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][6] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][7]_back to top_

  

[Return to Front Page][8]  

[1]: http://www.ucsc.onlinecommunity.com
[2]: mailto:furber@ucsc.edu
[3]: mailto:kdgivens@ucsc.edu.
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/finaff/ap/travel
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[7]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[8]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-12/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
