---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2043
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Diego Union Tribune</i> tapped <b>Craig Haney</b> of psychology for comment about the hardships faced by those exonerated by DNA evidence and freed from prison after being wrongly convicted.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Tosha Comendant,</b> a postdoctoral researcher working with biologists <b>Don Croll and Bernie Tershie,</b> was quoted in the <i>Orange County Register</i> in an article about efforts to rid Anacapa Island of nonnative rats.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted the appearance of Academy Award-winning actor Nicholas Cage at assistant professor of film and digital media <b>David Crane's</b> <i>Techno-Thrillers</i> film class.
</p>
<p>
  Research by <b>Glenn Millhauser,</b> professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on the prion protein (which causes "mad cow disease") was featured in <i>Chemical &amp; Engineering News,</i> the magazine of the American Chemical Society.
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Mara Mather's</b> research on memories of older people was featured in the June issue of the American Psychological Association's newsletter, <i>Monitor on Psychology.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about the election of linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> as a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was interviewed by a reporter from the <i>Arkansas Democrat-Gazette</i> about school segregation in the South.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> of psychology was interviewed for a <i>Psychology Today</i> article about how people adopt brand-name loyalties.
</p>
<p>
  Biology graduate student <b>Michael Weise</b> was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> story about sea lions swarming over Monterey's waterfront. Weise said he expected the sea lions to disperse soon.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erika Zavaleta,</b> a new assistant professor of environmental studies, saw her research on the water-guzzling habits of the nonnative tamarisk plant featured in <i>Associated Press</i> coverage of the government's efforts to eradicate the thirsty plant.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Triloki Pandey</b> was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the recent visit of Sri Mata Amritanandamayi Devi, considered a living saint by devotees and compared by many spiritual seekers to Mother Teresa and Mohandas Gandhi.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Norman Locks,</b> chair of the Art Department, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about an exhibition by UCSC's Irwin Scholars at the Sesnon Art Gallery.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Film and digital media lecturer <b>Irene Gustafson</b> was cited in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a donation by the Eastman Kodak Company of film stock to help support UCSC's digital arts program.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/06-23/news.html "Permalink to news")
