---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 3018
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Writing in <i>Asia Times,</i> David Isenberg referred extensively to an analysis of the appeal of Islamic radicalism penned by Middle East expert <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies that was published by the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College. Richards also was quoted in the <i>Salinas Californian,</i> discussing the likelihood of more terrorist attacks in the wake of the recent bombing of United Nations headquarters in Baghdad.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Boston Globe, The Gazette</i> (Montreal, Quebec), and the <i>Guelph Mercury</i> (Ontario, Canada) quoted American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> in an article about fashion choices made by pop stars to promote their careers in the music industry. Rose was also tapped for a <i>Miami Herald</i> piece about the globalization of hip-hop culture.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Former chancellor <b>Karl Pister</b> was quoted in a <i>California Journal</i> article about the presidency of <b>Richard Atkinson</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Daniel Costa,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article about whale populations on <i>Discovery News</i> online.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press covered a recent talk by economist <b>Carl Walsh</b> about monetary policy and uncertainty.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> tapped sociologist <b>Marcia Millman</b> for comment about the trend toward women taking their husband's name when they marry.
</p>
<p>
  Lecturer <b>Guillermo Delgado</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a <i>Salinas Californian</i> article about the high percentage of adults in Salinas who lack a high school diploma.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Thompson,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a UPI newswire story about the role of diseases in controlling populations of wild animals.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Sacramento Bee</i> interviewed New Teacher Center executive director <b>Ellen Moir</b> for a story about the tough job market facing new teachers this fall.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Black Enterprise</i> cited research by economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> in an article about African American business ownership.
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Veronica Tonay</b>'s new book about dream interpretation was featured in an <i>ABCNEWS.com</i> story.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was quoted in a <i>USA Today</i> article about lawsuits filed by the Recording Industry Association of America against 261 people accused of swapping music online, and the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> relied heavily on comments by Pratkanis for a story about the campaign strategy of former gubernatorial hopeful Peter Ueberroth.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported on a donation by retired staff member <b>Virginia "Ginger" Campbell,</b> who served as longtime executive assistant to UCSC founding chancellor Dean McHenry, to create an endowment in Higher Education at the University Library.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-15/news.html "Permalink to news")
