---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

**K. C. Fung** appeared on PBS's _Newshour_ with Jim Lehrer discussing the economic impact of SARS in cities like Hong Kong.

When leaders of the Human Genome Project announced its successful completion this month, several news articles mentioned the role of UCSC bioinformatics researchers in the project, including **David Haussler,** director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, and CBSE research scientist **James Kent.** The stories appeared in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Francisco Chronicle,_ and _The Scientist_ magazine.

During a recent visit to France, where he was invited to speak at the Sorbonne University, and to a group of multicultural community leaders in Marseilles, sociology professor **John Brown Childs** was quoted in the newspaper _Le Provencal _on the subject of transcommunal cooperation among diverse populations.

An article in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about marine reserves included quotes from **Mark Carr,** associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.   

Associate professor of Earth sciences **Erik Asphaug** published an article in _New Scientist_ magazine about efforts to monitor asteroids that might be on a collision course with Earth, and how the asteroid threat compares with other natural hazards.

**Ann Caudle,** coordinator of the Science Illustration Program, was quoted in a _Sierra_ magazine article about scientific illustration.  

Professor of astronomy and astrophysics **Garth Illingworth** was quoted in news stories about the planned launch of a powerful new space telescope called SIRTF, the fourth of NASA's "Great Observatories." The stories appeared in several newspapers, including the _Washington Post, Chicago Sun-Times,_ _Florida Today,_ and _Salt Lake Tribune_.  

**James Estes,** adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in an article in the _Washington Post_ about predation by killer whales on other marine mammals, including seals, sea lions, and sea otters.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-28/news.html "Permalink to news")
