---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hansen_bob.100.jpg
    - caption: "Bob Hansen Photo courtesy of the UCSC Athletic Department"
---

Awards and Honors

Division of Physical and Biological Sciences names outstanding faculty  

The Division of Physical and Biological Sciences has announced the recipients of the Outstanding Faculty Awards for 2001-02 and 2002-03. **Kenneth Bruland,** professor and chair of ocean sciences, received the award for 2001-02, and **Bruce Cooperstein,** professor of mathematics, received the 2002-03 award.  

The division established the Outstanding Faculty Award in 1993 to recognize faculty members who have shown distinction in their research, teaching, and commitment to service.   

Bruland studies the roles of trace elements in biogeochemical processes in the ocean. He conducts research on the role of iron as a limiting nutrient in certain areas off the California coast, and also studies the toxic effects of metals such as copper in contaminated coastal waters.   

Cooperstein conducts research in theoretical mathematics and is involved in efforts to improve the teaching of mathematics. He is a principal investigator of the Monterey Bay Area Mathematics Project and was a Pew Scholar with the Carnegie Institute for the Advancement of Teaching in 1999-2000.   
_back to top_

UCSC tennis coach to join Northern California Tennis Hall of Fame  

Bob Hansen, head men's tennis coach and founder of UCSC's tennis program, will be inducted into the Northern California Tennis Hall of Fame at Stanford's Forbes Plaza on July 24. Under Hansen's leadership, the tennis team won national championships in 1989, 1995, 1996, and 1998. UCSC players have won six NCAA National Doubles titles, including the last four, and two NCAA National Singles titles. The Slug tennis program has produced over 80 All-American selections.  

Hansen, who just completed his twenty-second season at UCSC, has been selected Intercollegiate Tennis Association Coach of the Year twice and last year was honored as the association's Coach of the Decade for the 90's. More information on [UCSC men's tennis_  
_][1]_back to top_

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://goslugs.com/teams/tennis/men/mten.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-07/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
