---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1858
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Research by <b>Bruce Lyon,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, showing that coots can recognize and count their own eggs, even when other birds have laid eggs in the same nest, received widespread media coverage, including articles in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Jose Mercury News, San Francisco Chronicle, Boston Globe, New York Times,</i> UPI and Reuters wire services, and the magazines <i>Science News</i> and <i>The Scientist.</i> Online coverage included <i>National Geographic News, MSNBC, ABC News,</i> and web sites of the British newspapers the <i>Daily Mirror</i> and the <i>Independent.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  In war news, <b>Alan Richard</b>s of environmental studies was interviewed on KUSP radio and by <i>La Opinion</i> newspaper, and the (Salinas) <i>Californian</i> checked in with Richards, historian <b>Terry Burke,</b> and political scientist <b>Ronnie Lipschutz</b> for an update on the war. . . . A <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about "blogs," or online journalism, featured comments from UCSC journalism instructor <b>Kevin Woodwar</b>d and politics professor <b>Bruce Larkin. . . .</b> Copley News Service tapped the propaganda expertise of psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis,</b> who also spoke with the <i>Daily Oklahoman</i> about the 1996 publication of the "Shock and Awe: Rapid Dominance" doctrine.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Amelie Hastie,</b> assistant professor of film and digital media, was consulted for a piece in the <i>New York Times</i> where she discussed media representation of the war in Iraq. The story was also picked up in <i>Le Monde.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> was quoted in an article about gamma ray bursts and other violent cosmic phenomena that ran in numerous Knight Ridder newspapers, including the <i>Houston Chronicle, Charleston Gazette, Charlotte Observer, Duluth News-Tribune, Billings Gazette,</i> and <i>Lexington Herald Leader.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Literature lecturer and poet <b>Charles Atkinson</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about how the war in Iraq seeps into American art.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jerry Nelson,</b> director of the Center for Adaptive Optics, and <b>Joseph Miller,</b> director of UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, were quoted in a story about adaptive optics that also ran in several Knight Ridder newspapers, including the <i>Charleston Gazette, Charlotte Observer,</i> and <i>Duluth News-Tribune.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> featured associate professor of music, <b>Hi Kyung Kim,</b> in an article about her role as artistic director of the UCSC Music Department's Pacific Rim Music Festival.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-14/news.html "Permalink to news")
