---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/science_image.140.jpg
    - caption: "Photo: Tom Van Dyke"
---

More News

Natural Sciences renamed the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences  

The Division of Natural Sciences has changed its name to the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences. The new name is more reflective of the division's mission, is better understood by the general public, and is more consistent with other UC campuses, said the division's dean, David Kliger.  

Formal approval of the name change was granted by UC's Office of the President in December.   

The change was endorsed by the division's department chairs and the Committee on Planning and Budget. The renaming does not involve any programmatic changes, organizational changes, or changes in any instructional or research programs.  
_Back to top_

Finalized campus calendar for 2003-04 now available

The [campus calendar][1] for the 2003-04 academic year has been finalized and is now available on the web at [http://reg.ucsc.edu/calendar/2003_04.html.][1] The calendar includes several modifications and has been approved by Campus Provost Simpson. The three primary changes are:  

* In fall 2003, classes begin on Thursday, September 25, rather than Wednesday, September 24, thus restoring valuable orientation time especially important for placing first-year students in appropriate writing classes.  
* In winter 2004, instruction begins on Monday, January 5, rather than Tuesday, January 6, and the advising day is eliminated, thus making it possible for classes to end on Friday, March 12, rather than Tuesday, March 16. As a result, there is no need for final exams to be scheduled on Saturday, and the quarter ends on Thursday, March 18, rather than Sunday, March 21, allowing for a spring break that includes a full week with two weekends.  
* In Spring 2004, instruction begins on Monday, March 29, rather than Tuesday, March 30, thereby restoring the required day of instruction lost by starting classes a day later in the fall.  

Contact Kevin Browne, executive director of admissions and university registrar, with any comments or questions at (831) 459-5779 or [kmbrowne@ucsc.edu.  
][2]_Back to top[_ ][2]

Recreation Department offers wide variety of winter classes

The [Recreation Department][3] has a full slate of classes and activities lined up for the winter quarter, including surfing, kayaking, rock climbing, backpacking, ski trips, massage and other Holistic Health classes, music, dance, cooking, meditation, survival skills, wilderness first aid and CPR, and much more. See [master list of classes.][4]

Registration for recreation classes begins on Tuesday, January 7. UCSC students only may sign up on the 7th at the Recreation Office at the East Field House from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Registration for staff, faculty, and community members begins on Wednesday, January 8, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Recreation Office. For more information, pick up a copy of the _Winter 2003 Recreation, Intramural and Sports Guide_ or call (831) 459-2806.

Phone-in registration, with a major credit card, begins on Wednesday, January 8, at 9 a.m. Those who are not UCSC students should be prepared to pay an additional fee.  
_Back to top_

Benefits Office moves off campus and extends hours of service

Beginning today, the Benefits Office will open at 7:30 a.m. for the pickup and dropoff of benefits forms and materials. The Benefits Office is now located off-campus at 2901 Mission Street Extension, across the street from the University Business Park.

In addition, the Benefits Office front desk will be staffed from noon to 1 p.m. to respond to general benefits inquiries and to allow for the pickup and dropoff of benefits forms and materials during the lunch hour.

These expanded office hours will be offered on a pilot basis through the end of February. The office will be tracking the extended-hour activity during the pilot period and toward the end of February will evaluate the expanded office hours and make adjustments as appropriate.  
_Back to top_

Learn how to get the most out of your fruit trees at a pruning workshop on January 11  

Fruit tree expert Orin Martin will offer all the tips you need to prune your pome fruit trees (apples and pears) successfully at a morning workshop at the Farm on Saturday, January 11, from 10 a.m. to noon.

Proper pruning will improve the health, appearance, and productivity of your fruit trees. Martin, a fruit tree expert and manager of the Alan Chadwick Garden at UCSC, has been cultivating trees at the Chadwick Garden for 25 years.  
  
Fees for the workshop, which are payable the day of the class, are $5-$10 (sliding scale) for members of the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden, and $10 for nonmembers. No preregistration is necessary. Wear warm clothes; heavy rain cancels. Note that the Stone Fruits Pruning Workshop, focusing on peaches and plums, will take place January 25. For more information, call (831) 459-3240.  
_Back to top_   

_Schedule of Classes_ and _Navigator_ shift to online only in fall 2003

In order to save paper, the campus will be discontinuing printing the [_Schedule of Classes][5]_ and the [_Navigator][6]_ beginning in fall 2003.

All the information contained in these publications is now being made available online. PDF files of these documents will also be available online for those who wish a paper copy.  
_Back to top_

Federal court rules to keep most defendants in Enron shareholders' lawsuit  
  
The federal judge handling the Enron Corp. securities lawsuit ruled December 20 against several major financial institutions, law firms, and the Arthur Andersen accounting firm, substantially denying most defendants' motions to be dismissed from the case. The ruling clears the way for Enron shareholders to begin the process of depositions and evidence discovery in the case.  
  
In April 2002, the University of California, as lead plaintiff, filed a consolidated complaint that added nine financial institutions, two law firms, and other new individual defendants to a list that already included 29 current and former Enron executives and Arthur Andersen LLP.

See full text of [UCOP press release.][7]  
_Back to top_

Construction update

_Currents_ provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. [Construction update story][8]

For more information, visit the [Transportation and Parking Services web site][9] and the [Physical Planning and Construction web site.  
][10]_Back to top_

[Return to Front Page][11]  

[1]: http://reg.ucsc.edu/calendar/2003_04.html
[2]: mailto:kmbrowne@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/index.html
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec/reclist.html
[5]: http://reg.ucsc.edu/soc/
[6]: http://reg.ucsc.edu/navigator/
[7]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2002/dec20art1.htm
[8]: ../../construction.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[11]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-06/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
