---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 1810
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Several profs have fielded war-related queries from the media lately, including <b>Isebill Gruhn</b> of politics who was interviewed by KGO Radio, and <b>Anthony Pratkanis,</b> whose expertise on wartime propaganda and psychological warfare has been in demand. He has fielded calls from the <i>South China Morning Post,</i> Hong Kong's biggest English-language newspaper, as well as from the <i>Los Angeles Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> ran an op-ed piece by American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> about the effect of race, sex, and stigmas in the fight against AIDS.
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about new federal rules governing research on potential bioterror agents.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> devoted several paragraphs in an article on the front page of the Health &amp; Fitness section to discussing the book <i>Lack of Character: Personality and Moral Behavior</i> by associate professor of philosophy <b>John Doris</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Nirvikar Singh</b> was quoted in a <i>Computer User</i> article about jobs, and economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> appeared in the winter issue of <i>Region Focus,</i> discussing free-trade issues.
</p>
<p>
  The Arboretum's <b>Stephen McCabe</b> was featured in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about Hummingbird Day at the Arboretum.
</p>
<p>
  Graduate students <b>Teresa Ish</b> and <b>Shelly Benoit</b> were featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about their efforts to educate consumers about how to choose sustainably harvested fish.<br>
</p>
<p>
  History of conscious professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted in the <i>Boston Globe</i> about an appearance at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where she argued that prisons should be abolished. She was also quoted in the Lancaster, Pa., <i>Intelligencer Journal</i> about her critique of the Bush administration in an appearance at Millersville University.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Stephen Thorsett</b> was quoted in a UPI wire service story about pulsars.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/03-24/news.html "Permalink to news")
