---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/outside.03-08-18.180.jpg
    - caption: 
---

Awards and Honors

UCSC rated top campus by _Outside_ magazine

UC Santa Cruz was ranked the nation's best campus by [_Outside][1]_ magazine in its September issue.

The magazine ranked the top 40 "schools that turn out smart grads with top-notch academic credentials, a healthy environmental ethos, and an A-plus sense of adventure."  

"Beautiful beaches, great surf, redwood forests, coastal mountains, and a Mediterranean climate make UC Santa Cruz, on the northern tip of the Monterey Bay, a hard place to study," the article said.

The article noted the array of recreational activities on campus and in the Santa Cruz area, and listed some of the varied offerings of the Office of Physical Education, Recreation, Sports, and Wellness (OPERS).

"UCSC's academic strengths are as diverse as the town," the article said, citing the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems and the Institute for Marine Sciences.

Rachel Sanders, a Cowell College junior with a double major in literature and film and digital media, was one of the student reporters who gathered information for the story.

UCSC rated most beautiful campus by Princeton Review

[Princeton Review][2], a New York-based company best known for its testing-preparation services, has ranked UCSC first in the nation in the "beautiful campus" category.

Princeton Review rankings, covering a variety of academic and nonacademic aspects of college life, are not decided by Princeton Review staffers. The Princeton Review survey asks students at 351 colleges nationwide 70 questions about academics, campus life, student body, study hours, politics and opinions, and bases rankings on their responses.

  
_back to top_

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://outsideonline.com/index.html
[2]: http://princetonreview.com
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/08-18/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
