---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/goode_feet.180.jpg
    - caption: "Joe Goode Performance Group returns to UCSC this week with its new work, Folk. Photo: Bill Pack"
  -
    - file: ../art/banksia_speciosa.180.jpg
    - caption: "Banksia speciosa, pictured above, is one of the impressive plants that will be for sale at the Arboretum Spring Plant Sale April 17."
---

News Briefs

Arboretum will hold annual Spring Plant Sale on April 17

The [Arboretum][1] will hold its annual Spring Plant Sale on Saturday, April 17, from 10 a.m. to noon for members only and from 12 to 4 p.m. for the general public. The sale, held in conjunction with the California Native Plant Society, will take place at the Arboretum's Eucalyptus Grove on High Street near the intersection with Western Drive.  

This annual plant sale is unlike any other, featuring both highly exotic plants and plants native to the local area. There are plants that have been imported from Australia, South Africa, and New Zealand, as well as unusual forms of California native plants that have been collected by Arboretum staff. For its part, the California Native Plant Society sells only California natives, including some propagated from local plant populations in Santa Cruz County. Several kinds of native bulbs will be available this year.  

This year many of the batches of plants are small, so some species may sell out either in the members-only sale or early in the public sale, said Stephen McCabe, research and education coordinator for the Arboretum. Memberships can be purchased on the day of the sale for $25.  

The Arboretum is open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day. Norrie's Gifts is open daily from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.   
top

Event looks at foreign policy 'After the Iraqi Debacle'  

A panel discussion, "After the Iraqi Debacle: Toward a New U.S. Foreign Policy in the Muslim World," will be presented on Thursday, April 15, from 7 to 9 p.m., at Earth and Marine Sciences B-206.  

Panelists for the event are Edmund Burke, professor of history; Ronnie Lipschutz, professor of politics; Paul Lubeck, professor of sociology; and Alan Richards, professor of environmental studies.  

This event is sponsored by the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies working group, Globalization and Islamic Social Movements. For more information, contact (831) 459-2833/[global@ucsc.edu][2].  
top

Joe Goode Performance Group presents dance and theater April 17, 18

San Francisco's [Joe Goode Performance Group][3] will present its boundary-breaking contemporary dance theater at UCSC Theater Arts Mainstage on April 17 at 8 p.m. and April 18 at 7 p.m. Combining story, song, and humor with deeply physical, high-velocity dance, Joe Goode is more than dance and more than theater.

The group will present its new work, _Folk_, which reveals "rural" dwellers in all of their complexity and contradictions. All members of this superb company move, sing, speak, and act equally well, completely integrating music, storytelling, and dance while presenting refreshingly alternative, nonstereotyped characters.  

Tickets are: Gold Circle $40; adults $25; students and seniors with ID $20; UCSC students with ID $12. Contact the UCSC Ticket Office (open Tu.-Sat., 12-4 p.m.) at (831) 459-2159 (v/tdd), [tickets@ucsc.edu][4]  
top

Staff HR offers transition support services

Working through a career transition or career crisis can be difficult; planning one's career path is often a challenge. The Staff Human Resources Office provides individual career coaching and transitional support workshops.

Spring career development workshops are listed below, and descriptions of the workshops can be found at the [SHR web site][5]. All the workshops are free.

**Identifying Career Values and Skills: A Self-Assessment  
**Wednesday, April 14, 3 to 5 p.m., SHR Training Room   

**Job Movement at UCSC**   
Wednesday, April 28, 3 to 5 p.m., SHR Training Room   

**Resumes and Cover Letters**  
Wednesday, May 12, 3 to 5 p.m., SHR Training Room   

**Interview Preparation**  
Session 1 - Monday, May 24, 3 to 5 p.m., SHR Training Room   
Session 2 - Thursday, May 27, 3 to 5 p.m., SHR Training Room   

To enroll in a workshop, use the [Training and Development Registration Form][6] or call (831) 459-5565. For additional information on available services, contact Esther Sylvan in Staff Human Resources at (831) 459-2892 or [esther@ucsc.edu][7].  
top

Campus post office to reduce hours beginning April 19

Due to budgetary constraints and reduction in staffing at Campus Mail Services, the Campus Post Office, located in the basement of Baskin Engineering, will reduce its hours for personal postal services. Effective Monday, April 19, the post office will be open from 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. This change will not affect the administrative operations of Campus Mail Services. For more information, call (831) 459-2765.   
top

Role of poetry in times of crisis is topic of event on April 17  

Is Poetry Enough? Poetry in a Time of Crisis, a daylong event exploring the special role of poetry in times of crisis, will be presented on Saturday, April 17, at Porter College Dining Hall.   

UCSD professor, poet, and 1992 presidential candidate Eileen Myles will read from her work at 2 p.m. Mills College professor Juliana Spahr will lead a panel discussion that will investigate the relation between poetry and crisis in an international context with examples from Korean, Mexican, and Pacific poetries at 3 p.m. Author and publisher Leslie Scalapino will lead a discussion of poets anthologized in a book she coedited, titled _Enough,_ and her forthcoming magazine, "War and Peace," at 4:30 p.m.  

There will also be a student reading, a reception, and a gala evening reading/performance by all poet-panelists and UCSC literature professor Nathaniel Mackey from 6 to 9 p.m. This event is sponsored by the Porter College Hitchcock Poetry Fund, the Cultural Studies Poetry Research Cluster, the National Endowment for the Arts, and A'A' Arts. Admission is free. For more information, contact [hamilton@ucsc.edu][8].  
top

AHR offers information session for assistant professors

Information sessions for assistant professors will be held on Wednesday, May 18, from 3 to 5 p.m., or on Thursday, May 20, from 10 a.m. to noon, both in  
McHenry Library, Room 325. You only need to attend one session.

These sessions are intended to help assistant professors understand some of the  
policies and procedures in academic personnel reviews. Contact Academic Human Resources, (831) 459-4779 or [furber@ucsc.edu][9], to register.  
top

UC's libraries affirm the importance of alternative publishing models  

The University of California libraries are demonstrating their commitment to supporting innovations that provide wider dissemination and facilitate easier research access to scholarly publishing by become an institutional member of the Public Library of Science.   

With a mission to make scientific and medical literature a public resource, the Public Library of Science (PLoS) is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 2000 by Nobel laureate, former National Institutes of Health director, and UC San Francisco faculty member Harold E. Varmus and colleagues.

On their web site devoted to reshaping scholarly communication, the [libraries of UC's 10 campuses][10] note that comprehensive access to the expanding volume of scholarly materials necessary for research and teaching is at risk for UC as it is for higher education generally.

See full text of [press release][11]  
top

Seymour Center premieres on UCTV Primetime

As a base for field research in Monterey Bay and the ocean beyond, Seymour Center at Long Marine Laboratory is a hub of activity in the field of marine sciences. In April and May, UCTV pays tribute to these researchers and their colleagues around the state during the channel's celebration of ocean science and research. Beginning April 13, tune in to Santa Cruz Community Television, Channel 26 (Comcast) Tuesday nights at 9 p.m. for a series of six programs. Programs will repeat the following Sunday on Channel 25.

April 13: **The View Over Time and Space: Three Decades of Endangered Peregrine Falcon Research**   
Brian Walton, researcher and coordinator of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, tells the personal story that led him to the rescue of the peregrine falcon population in California and the western United States.  

April 20:** The View Over Time and Space: Sleuthing Mother Nature with Seals - Revelations from Long-Term Study**  
Burney Le Boeuf, professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology at UCSC, evaluates long-term studies and what valuable information can be gleaned from them.  

April 27: **The View Over Time and Space: Perspectives of an Astronaut/Oceanographer**   
Kathryn Sullivan, president and CEO of the Center of Science and Industry and a UCSC alumna, shares her perspectives as an astronaut, oceanographer, and educator.  

May 4: **Charting a Course for the Future of Our Oceans**  
Leon Panetta, director of the Leon and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy and a member of the Pew Oceans Commission, reflects on his experience and the commission's report.  

May 11: **Sedimental Journeys: Coastal Development**  
A retrospective of attitudes about coastal development in the Monterey Bay region and a geological survey of the coast.  

May 18: **Sedimental Journeys: Early Cultures Along the Central Coast**  
A review of early cultures sharing the Central Coast and how each viewed and used marine resources.  

For a complete schedule of UCTV's tribute to ocean science, visit [www.uctv.tv/ocean][12].  
top

Applications for awards due  

The deadline for seniors to apply for Deans' and Chancellor's Awards, as well as the Steck Award, is April 16. Those interested should check with their departments for details.  
top

Updated UC profiles web site shows how students pay for college this year  

The University of California web site, ["You Can, We Can Help,"][13] has been updated and tells new stories of how current UC students finance their college education.  
There are many new faces on the web site and among them are:  

* A junior at UCLA who saved money during high school and made it to college from a tough East Los Angeles neighborhood.  
* A senior transfer student at UC Santa Cruz who attended college on need based-grants and studied anthropology, and now intends to use her skills helping communities in India.  
* One student-parent who took 15 years to make it to UC Riverside and gets enough grant and loan assistance to raise her two children while attending college.  

The student profiles demonstrate for prospective and current UC students the wide range of financial aid resources available and show how students at a variety of income levels meet the challenges of paying for a UC education.  
top

Dedication of Communications Building set

UCSC will dedicate its newly renovated Communications Building on April 17\. The remodeled building provides the Film and Digital Media Department with a new centralized location on campus that will be more accessible to the public.  
[ Construction update story][14]  
[ ][15]top   

[Return to Front Page][16]

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/arboretum/
[2]: mailto:global@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://events.ucsc.edu/artslecs/ARTISTS.03-04/Goode.html
[4]: mailto:tickets@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/staff_hr/consulting/transition.htm
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev/td/professional_dev/Signup_form.html
[7]: mailto:esther@ucsc.edu
[8]: mailto:hamilton@ucsc.edu
[9]: mailto:furber@ucsc.edu
[10]: http://libraries.universityofcalifornia.edu/scholarly/
[11]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2004/apr01.htm
[12]: http://www.uctv.tv/ocean
[13]: http://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/admissions/youcan/welcome1.html
[14]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[15]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[16]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-12/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
