---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2810
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> interviewed psychologist <b>Elliot Aronson,</b> an expert on social influence, for a story about the Iraqi prison scandal and the soldiers who found the strength not to abuse inmates.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> also continues to field media calls regarding the prison scandal, most recently from <i>Newsweek,</i> the Associated Press, and KQED Radio in San Francisco.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>Fredric Lieberman</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about donations to UCSC by two foundations established by members of the Grateful Dead to help preserve the archive of the late composer Lou Harrison in the library's Special Collections.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about peregrine falcons nesting in the city for the first time in 70 years featured <b>Brian Walton,</b> coordinator of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, and <b>David Gregoire,</b> a research associate with the group. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the predatory bird group's outreach programs in schools, featuring program manager <b>Glenn Stewart</b> and Sophie, the tame peregrine that is an integral part of his presentations.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> tapped economist <b>Michael Dooley</b> for comment about the mushrooming U.S. trade gap.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reviewed a performance of excerpts from music professor <b>David Evan Jones</b>'s new opera, which kicked off the Music Department's annual "April in Santa Cruz Festival of Contemporary Music."<br>
</p>
<p>
  A story about the high tech job market in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> included comments from <b>Ira Pohl,</b> professor and chair of computer science.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Pete Raimondi,</b> professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in a story in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> and <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> about the effects of withering disease on abalone populations. Raimondi was also interviewed about withering disease on KGO Radio.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> ran a story about grunion runs on the Central Coast featuring <b>Giacomo Bernardi,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. Grunion are small silvery fish that spawn at night on sandy beaches.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Roland Tharp</b> of the UCSC-based Center for Research on Education, Diversity &amp; Excellence, was featured in three stories about effective instruction that appeared in the <i>Correctional Education Bulletin</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a review of the new book <i>The Hunter's Breath,</i> by professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Terrie Williams.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  Art professor <b>Jennie McDade</b> was quoted in a <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> article about her painting exhibit at a Moss Landing gallery.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-24/news.html "Permalink to news")
