---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies hit the media jackpot last week when he appeared on _NOW with Bill Moyers._ Pastor and his coauthor, Angela Glover Blackwell, discussed community activism and postelection ways individuals can work for social change.

American studies professor **Judy Yung** was extensively quoted in a _Sacramento Bee_ article about Chinese immigration through the Bay Area's Angel Island.

Astrophysicist **Stan Woosley** was quoted in a _New York Times_ article about research on supernova explosions. An image from Woosley's computer simulations of supernovae accompanied the story.

**Julie Guthman** of community studies was featured on KQED Radio's _California Report,_ discussing her recent book about organic farming in the Golden State.  

Physicist **Joel Primack** was featured in a story on National Public Radio's _All Things Considered_ about a report from the American Physical Society criticizing President Bush's plans for space exploration. Primack was also featured in an article about cosmology in _New Scientist_ magazine.

Assistant professor of theater arts **Patty Gallagher** was quoted in the _Washington Post_ about her expertise in mask work and theatrical clowning.

Economist **Rob Fairlie** made the _Wall Street Journal,_ discussing the recent rise in entrepreneurship.

Biologist **Jim Estes** and graduate student **Tim Tinker** were featured in an article about sea otter populations in the _Los Angeles Times._

Technology developed by **Holger Schmidt**, assistant professor of electrical engineering, for guiding light waves through small volumes of liquids on a chip was covered by _Laser Focus World_ and _Chemical Processing_ magazines.

Environmental studies Ph.D. candidate **Max Boykoff**'s analysis of media coverage of global climate change was a point of discussion in a _Columbia Journalism Review_ article. Boykoff, who was interviewed for the story, also appeared in the _Christian Science Monitor_ and the _World Paper._

Engineering dean **Steve Kang** was quoted in an article in _Electronic Engineering Times_ about a panel he chaired at the International Conference on Computer-Aided Design in San Jose.

Psychology's **Anthony Pratkanis** was interviewed by the _Arizona Republic_ about the "opening day" frenzy that draws crowds like the one that gathered in Tempe for the opening of an Ikea store.

Biologist **Terrie Williams** was interviewed on KION TV about a dolphin that was released back into the wild after being rehabilitated by Williams and her team of marine mammal trainers at Long Marine Lab in cooperation with the Marine Mammal Center of Sausalito.

The _Register-Pajaronian_ interviewed **Kirsten Gruesz,** associate professor of literature, for a story on a presentation she gave on Hispanic literature at the Watsonville Public Library.

Ocean sciences graduate student **Daria Siciliano** was quoted in a _Monterey Herald_ story about researchers using a remote sensing technique called hyperspectral imaging to study Monterey Bay.

**Gary Griggs**, professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about the defeat of a proposal to build a seawall in Capitola.

_ScienceNow_ ran a story about research by Earth sciences graduate student **Kena Fox-Dobbs** on the diets of California condors during the late Pleistocene, which she presented at the annual meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in Denver.

Arts & Lectures director **Michelle Witt** was quoted in a story on the cover of the arts section of the _San Jose Mercury News_ about an appearance by famed rapper and social activist Chuck D at UCSC.

**John Wilkes,** director of the Science Communication Program, was quoted in an article about careers in science journalism on the _Nature Jobs_ web site.

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/11-29/news.asp "Permalink to news")
