---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2507
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  More News
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="forum" id="forum"></a>Staff forum on Information Technology transformation February 4
</p>
<p>
  All staff are invited to attend the latest in a series of staff forums explaining the work of the Executive Budget Committee on Wednesday, February 4, from 12:30 to 1:40 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2. At this forum, members of the team involved with information technology will make a presentation and answer questions. The series is sponsored by the Staff Advisory Board.
</p>
<p>
  The previous forum on January 12 dealt with workers' compensation. See Currents <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/01-12/compensation.html">story.</a><br>
  <a href="#forum">top</a>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="benefits" id="benefits"></a>Benefits Office offers workshop on the UC Retirement</span> <span class="sectionhead">System</span><br>
</p>
<p>
  The Benefits Office is offering a workshop on the university's retirement and savings programs for newly hired employees and those who want to expand or refresh their knowledge. In addition to providing an overview of the UC Retirement System, the workshop will cover the Defined Contribution Plan (DCP) Pre-Tax and After-Tax programs, the Capital Accumulation Provision (CAP), and the voluntary Tax Deferred 403(b) plan.
</p>
<p>
  The workshop will take place on Tuesday, February 10, from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Bay Tree Conference Room D. Reservations are required; call (831) 459-2013 to reserve a spot.
</p>
<p>
  Periodically the Benefits Office has workshops on planning for retirement presented by Fidelity Investments representatives. Contact the Benefits Office for more information.<br>
  <a href="#forum">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="faculty" id="faculty"></a>Faculty to lead death penalty discussion at Merrill College on Feb. 3
</p>
<p>
  Professors Angela Davis of history of consciousness, George Lipsitz of American studies, and Paul Ortiz of community studies will speak and lead a discussion about the death penalty and, in particular, the case of Kevin Cooper. The panel discussion will take place on Tuesday, February 3, at 6 p.m. in the Merrill College Dining Hall; it is free and open to the public.
</p>
<p>
  Cooper, an African American, will be executed on February 10 for the murder of a Chino Hills family unless Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger or the court grant him clemency. It would be the state's first execution since January 2002.
</p>
<p>
  For more information about the panel discussion, call Martin Smith<br>
  at (831) 459-3357 .
</p>
<p>
  For more information about the Kevin Cooper case, go to <a href="http://www.deathpenalty.org">www.deathpenalty.org</a>/; see <a href="http://www.sacbee.com/content/news/courts_legal/story/8184954p-9116298c.html">article</a> in the <i>Sacramento Bee;</i> <a href="http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/chronicle/archive/2004/01/30/MNG4O4LCUA1.DTL">article</a> in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle.<br></i><a href="#forum">top</a>
</p>
<p>
  <b class="sectionhead"><a name="slater" id="slater"></a>Sociologist Philip Slater to speak on Feb. 9</b>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist and author Philip E. Slater will be the guest speaker at the Sociology Colloquium on Monday, February 9, from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in Room 201 (Red Room) of the Student Commons Building at College Eight. His talk, titled "Temporary Insanity: Living Through a Transformative Era," is free and open to the public.
</p>
<p>
  Slater is the author of <i>A Dream Deferred: America's Discontent and the Search for a New Democratic Ideal</i> (Beacon Press, 1991), <i>The Pursuit of Loneliness</i>: <i>American Culture at the Breaking Point</i> (Beacon Press, 3rd ed., 1990), and seven other books of nonfiction. A former professor of sociology at Brandeis University, Slater lives in northern California.<br>
  <a href="#forum">top</a>
</p>
<p>
  <b class="sectionhead"><a name="ucenter" id="ucenter"></a>UCenter's 'Alive after Five' event has Spanish theme</b>
</p>
<p>
  This month's "Alive after Five" gathering at the <a href="http://ucenter.ucsc.edu/">University Center</a> has a Spanish theme and new hours: 4 to 7:30 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  Join your friends and colleagues on February 5 for an "Alive after Five" gathering featuring Latin music and tango dancing with professional dancers. Spanish tapas and margaritas will be on the menu, along with chef specials and a "pre-valentine" chocolate and port special.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The UCenter is holding a raffle for a Valentine's Day candlelight dinner for two in front of the fireplace at the UCenter. The four-course dinner includes wine and champagne, private serenade, and a personal waiter and chef. Raffle tickets are $5 each, $20 for 5, or $40 for 10. The winner will be announced on February 5 at 6 p.m. during "Alive after Five." Stop by or call (831) 459-4321 to purchase tickets.<br>
  <a href="#forum">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="construction" id="construction"></a>Winter groundbreaking likely for Humanities and Social Sciences Building
</p>
<p>
  Groundbreaking is expected this winter for the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building. The project will consist of three buildings located at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives on what is now a parking lot northwest of Cowell College. <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.<br></a><a href="#forum">top</a><br>
  <br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-02/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
