---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2688
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Broadcast media picked up the story of an optical glucose sensor developed by chemistry professor <b>Bakthan Singaram:</b> Singaram was interviewed on KSCO Radio, and KSMS TV in Monterey interviewed Singaram, visiting researcher <b>Rich Wessling,</b> and chemistry professor <b>Todd Wipke.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Brian Walton,</b> coordinator of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the group's efforts to reduce the number of birds killed by wind turbines. Walton was also interviewed by <i>Earthwatch,</i> a syndicated program broadcast on public radio stations.
</p>
<p>
  Italy's classical guitar magazine <i>GuitArt</i> <i>International</i> ran a feature article about music lecturer <b>Mesut Ozgen</b>'s multimedia project, New Dimensions in Classical Guitar, detailing his collaboration with assistant film and digital media professor <b>Gustavo Vazquez,</b> music lecturer <b>Peter Elsea,</b> and assistant theater arts professor <b>David Cuthbert.</b> . . . Ozgen was also quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentine</i>l article announcing that he and theater arts lecturer <b>Tandy Beal</b> were named artists-in-residence for a second year at the Henry J. Mello Center for the Performing Arts in Watsonville.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research by <b>Anujan Varma,</b> professor of computer engineering, to develop an optical router for the Internet.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Deamer,</b> professor emeritus of chemistry and biochemistry and acting chair of biomolecular engineering, was quoted in a <i>Chicago Tribune</i> story about researchers trying to create artificial life in the laboratory, and in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the prospects for life on Mars.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted music professor <b>David Evan Jones</b> in a story describing his recent trip to Asia with music professor <b>Nicole Paiement</b> and music lecturer <b>Brian Staufenbiel</b> to oversee the Korean premiere of his first opera.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Glatzmaier,</b> professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> article about unanswered questions in science. Glatzmaier described the mysteries of Earth's magnetic field.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Articles in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and the <i>Berkeley Daily Planet</i> about touchscreen voting machine software developed by the Open Voting Consortium included quotes from computer scientist <b>Arthur Keller,</b> who helped found the consortium.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-12/news.html "Permalink to news")
