---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2856
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  News Briefs
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="awards" id="awards"></a>Chemers to present Sustainability Awards</span><br>
</p>
<p>
  Efforts to make UCSC a greener campus will be showcased during the Sustainability Awards Ceremony at 4 p.m. June 10 in Classroom Unit 2. Sponsored by the <a href="http://www.ucscsec.org/events.html">Student Environmental Center</a> and the multicampus <a href="http://www.eslp.net/">Education for Sustainable Living Program</a>, the ceremony will be followed by a live-music reception with door prizes from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Redwood Lounge (formerly the Whole Earth Restaurant).
</p>
<p>
  Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers will speak and present awards to staff, faculty, student organizations, and students for their efforts in making the campus more ecologically, economically, and socially sustainable. A brief documentary on the student-led Education for Sustainable Living Program, information on the Blueprint for a Sustainable Campus, and reports from topic groups formed at the third annual Campus Earth Summit will be presented. RSVPs are requested; e-mail <a href="mailto:enviroslug@ucscsec.org">enviroslug@ucscsec.org</a> or call (831) 459-1714.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="parking" id="parking"></a>Reminder: Time to renew parking permits
</p>
<p>
  Now is the time to renew your parking permit online at the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/pages/facstaffpermitchoices.html">TAPS parking permit web page</a>. As announced by Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers at the Staff Breakfast May 7, there is no increase in parking fees for 2004-05. Rates remain at 2003-04 levels. TAPS is offering several new parking-permit options, including:<br>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Remote Lot ("R") Carpool Permit for $432/year<br>
  </li>
  <li>Free motorcycle permits for the East and West Remote Lots and the Granary Lot.<br>
  </li>
  <li>Four-day Limited "A" and "B" Permits: $159/quarter, except for Fall Quarter, when the cost will be $212.<br>
  </li>
  <li>Limits on the number of daily A packets will be removed and staff, faculty, and graduate students may buy additional packets at $225 per packet.<br>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  Detailed descriptions and information about these new options can be found at <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/pages/newpermitoptions.html">www2.ucsc.edu/taps/pages/newpermitoptions.html</a>.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="data_storage" id="data_storage"></a>UCSC researchers and industry reps meet to discuss data storage systems</span><br>
  <br>
  UCSC faculty and students in the Storage Systems Research Center (SSRC) met with computer industry representatives for two days last week to exchange ideas on the future of data storage. The SSRC, one of the major research groups in the Baskin School of Engineering, is focused on improving the performance, security, and reliability of data-storage systems.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The SSRC Research Review meeting included presentations from both SSRC researchers and industry representatives. The meeting serves as an opportunity for the center to get feedback from industry sponsors, said SSRC director and professor of computer science Darrell Long.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Companies represented at the meeting included Hewlett-Packard, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, IBM, Engenio Information Technologies, Network Appliance, and Veritas Software. Researchers from Lawrence Livermore and Los Alamos National Laboratories also attended the meeting.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "There is an ongoing need for improvements in data-storage technologies. The SSRC is doing good work in this area, and we have been very supportive of the center," said John Muth, principal engineer at Veritas, a leading storage software company.<br>
</p>
<p>
  In addition to support from industry sponsors, the SSRC receives major funding from the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy. The center includes 10 faculty members and about 20 graduate students from the Computer Science, Computer Engineering, and Electrical Engineering Departments. Their research focuses on caching, storage systems hierarchies, large-scale distributed storage systems, security, and performance.<br>
  <i>By <a href="mailto:stephens@ucsc.edu">Tim Stephens</a></i><br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="wellness" id="wellness"></a>Wellness Center offering limited hours during East Field House closure and summer activity classes and seminars
</p>
<p>
  All facilities at the East Field House, with the exception of the Wellness Center, will be closed for locker clearing and maintenance from Friday, June 11, through Sunday, June 20. Lockers should be cleared out and checked-out items turned in, i.e. towel, lock, or gym clothing, by Thursday, June 10, to avoid being assessed a late fee. The administrative office will be open during this closure to renew wellness cards.
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/pages/index.html">Wellness Center</a> hours of operation are as follows:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <b>Finals week:</b> Open June 7-10, Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Closed Friday through Sunday, June 11-13.
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Quarter break:</b> June 14-18, Monday-Friday, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday, June 19-20.
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>Summer hours:</b> beginning Monday, June 21, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8 p.m.; Tuesday and Thursday, 7 a.m.-8 p.m.; and Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  The <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/pages/index.html">Wellness Center</a> is offering a variety of activity classes, health discussion series, and one-day seminars this summer. <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/pages/specialevents.html">Summer class listings</a> include Stretching Basics, Cardio and Weights, Pilates, Lifetime Fitness and Health, and Beating Stress, Anxiety, and Depression the Natural Way. Register before June 7, and you will receive a 10 percent reduction in the cost of the class; register with a friend or group, and all receive the discount. For more information or to register for classes, contact Ryan Andrews at (831) 459-3970 or <a href="mailto:randrews@ucsc.edu">randrews@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="swimming" id="swimming"></a>Summer swimming lessons for children and adults
</p>
<p>
  Swimming instruction for beginners through swimmers is offered at the 50-meter pool for children of students, staff, faculty, and valid recreation-card holders. There are four two-week sessions from June 21 to August 13. The cost is $35 per child per session. Sign-up at the OPERS office Monday-Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  Adult lessons are offered at the 50-meter pool to students, staff, faculty, and valid recreation-card holders. Classes are Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 1:15 p.m. in two four-week sessions (June 22-July 15 and July 20 - August 12). The cost is $30 per adult.
</p>
<p>
  Private lessons are also available for adults and children ages 3 and up. Times vary and can be arranged throughout the day and weekends. The cost is $10 per 30-minute session or five sessions for $45. Call (831) 459-3983.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="wilderness" id="wilderness"></a>Recreation Office offers Wilderness First Responder course</span>
</p>
<p>
  The Wilderness First Responder course will be given by the Wilderness Medicine Institute June 11-20 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the East Field House. The course is designed to provide outdoor leaders, guides, rangers, and travelers with the knowledge needed to deal with medical emergencies in remote settings. The 80-hour curriculum includes wound management and infection, realigning fractures and dislocations, improvised splinting techniques, patient monitoring and long-term management problems, environmental emergencies, plus advice on drug therapies. Certifications upon successful completion. Cost is $425/UCSC students, $495/general. Register by calling (831) 459-2806.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a><br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="graduation" id="graduation"></a>Celebrate graduation at the University Center
</p>
<p>
  Graduating? Parents in town? Need a classy yet festive place to eat, drink, and be merry? Want to avoid the hassle of going off campus? The <a href="http://ucenter.ucsc.edu">University Center</a> is extending its hours and offerings to serve grads and their families.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Saturday, June 12</b>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Buffet Brunch/Lunch, 10:30 a.m.-3 p.m.
  </li>
  <li>Patio and Lounge open 3-5 p.m., serving "Graduation 2004" specialty drinks, with selected wine and beer on special for $2.75; alumni wines by the glass
  </li>
  <li>Dinner, 5-8 p.m. Special four-course prix-fixe menu with vegan/vegetarian options. Child's menu also available.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>Sunday, June 13</b>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Champagne Buffet Brunch/Lunch 10:30 a.m.-3 p.m. Call now for your reservation--spaces are filling up fast!<br>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  For reservations, call (831) 459-4321. The University Center (directly above Colleges Nine and Ten Dining Commons) features a full-service restaurant, full bar, patio, and spectacular views of the redwoods.<br>
  <a href="#awards">top</a><br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="construction" id="construction"></a>Construction to begin this summer on Humanities and Social Sciences Building
</p>Construction of the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building will begin this summer and continue through summer 2006.<br>
<a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html">Construction update story</a><a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/"><br></a><a href="#awards">top</a><br>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-07/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
