---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4373
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The record $1 million raised for student scholarships and fellowships at UCSC's Scholarships Benefit Dinner was covered in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>, the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and on KQED Radio.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran stories about the dedication of the new Engineering 2 Building and the Baskin Engineering Auditorium. Among those quoted in the stories were engineering dean <b>Steve Kang</b> and professors <b>David Haussler, Pat Mantey</b>, and <b>Darrell Long.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> spoke with the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> about her analysis of which jobs are most vulnerable to outsourcing.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran a story about research by <b>Wentai Liu,</b> professor of electrical engineering, to help develop an artificial retina to restore sight to the blind.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> of psychology was interviewed by KSBW TV about the controversy over the airing of the film <i>Saving Private Ryan</i> on Veteran's Day.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Smithsonian</i> magazine quoted biologist <b>Brian Latta</b> of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group in an article about efforts to save the Channel Islands fox.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Donald Coyne,</b> adjunct professor of physics, wrote a commentary on the movie <i>What the #$*! Do We Know?</i> for the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> criticizing the movie for taking too much artistic license in its interpretation of quantum physics.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Food Chemical News</i> ran a story about marine scientist <b>Peter Miller</b>'s work with the California Department of Health Services to develop an improved system for monitoring biotoxins in the state's fish and shellfish.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/11-15/news.asp "Permalink to news")
