---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Emeritus professor of linguistics **William Shipley** was featured in _Mother Jones_ magazine in an article titled "Keepers of a Lost Language" about efforts to preserve the language of Mountain Maidu.  

Stories about the awarding of a Getty campus heritage grant to UCSC appeared in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and the _San Jose Mercury News_ and were sent out on the Associated Press news wire.

Film and Digital Media Department Chair** Chip Lord** was interviewed on _Talk of the City,_ a program of Pasadena's KPCC radio, about his role as co-founder of the historic Ant Farm architectural collective.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ noted the work of Film and Digital Media professor **L. S. Kim** in bringing Hollywood film directors Alexander Payne, Justin Lin, and actress Sandra Oh to visit film classes on campus.  

The _Monterey Herald_ quoted women's studies lecturer **Peggy Downes Baskin** in an article about women networking to advance their business careers.  

The_ San Jose Mercury News _and_ Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran stories about the new 2004-05 series announced by UCSC's Arts & Lectures.   

Linguistics professor **Geoffrey Pullum** was quoted in an_ Orlando Sentinel_ article, contesting claims that a study recently published in the journal _Science_ shows that dogs can understand language.   

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ noted that Music Department faculty **David Evan Jones, David Cope, Paul Nauert, Hi Kyung Kim, **and** Karlton Hester** will coordinate UCSC's new doctorate program in music composition. The _Mid-County Post_ also featured Jones in a story about the new program.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ printed history professor **Jonathan Beecher**'s commencement speech at Stevenson College in its entirety after observing that his comments prompted a wide range of reactions in the community.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel, Register-Pajaronian, _and_ Monterey Herald_ quoted Shakespeare Santa Cruz director **Paul Whitworth** and Theater Arts Department chair **Danny Scheie** in stories about the new SSC summer season.  

The_ Santa Cruz Sentinel_ announced the appointment of philosophy professor **Ellen Suckiel** as provost of Stevenson College.  

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-23/news.html "Permalink to news")
