---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Research by professor of biomolecular engineering **David Haussler** and others on the use of computers to reconstruct the genome of a common ancestor of mammals received wide coverage, including the _New York Times, Minneapolis Star Tribune, Santa Cruz Sentinel_, the _Guardian_ (U.K.), Scripps Howard News Service, UPI, _New Scientist_ magazine, and online news sites MSNBC.com, BBC News, _ScienceNow, Scientific American, Bio-IT World, Innovations Report, Times of India, Betterhumans (Canada), Science Daily, ScienceBlog.com, and Medical News Today._

Research on the antibiotic rifampicin as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease by **Anthony Fink,** professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was covered by the _Hartford Courant,_ UPI, BBC _News.com, Forbes.com, WebMD_, _DeHavilland News, Science Daily, WebIndia_, and CNS _Drug News Pharmaceuticals._

Economist **Michael Dooley** was quoted in a _Business Week_ article about the U.S. trade gap, explaining the benefits to China of the large gap. Dooley was also quoted discussing Asian exchange rates in a _Bloomberg News_ column. In another story about the impacts of globalization on the U.S. economy, _ Business Week_ reported research by economist **Lori Kletzer**, who has examined data of workers who've been laid off to extrapolate the fate of workers displaced by trade.

_ABCNews.com_ ran a story about research on Weddell Seals in Antarctica by **Terrie Williams**, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. Video footage from Williams's research was aired with related stories on ABC's _Good Morning America, World News Tonight_, and _20/20._

The _Los Angeles Times_ tapped sociologist **Mike Males** for comment about the drop in teen drivers, which he attributes to the expense of cars and insurance. The _San Jose Mercury News_ and the _Contra Costa Times_ also phoned Males for a story about adults being held liable for youths' crimes.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about the death of Rocky the sea lion, with quotes from research biologist **Colleen Kastak** and **Ronald Schusterman**, retired adjunct professor of ocean sciences.

The Associated Press quoted psychology's **Craig Haney** in a story about prospective jurors' understanding of the presumption of innocence, which he said is often deficient.

The _Mid-County Post_ ran a story about research on black-headed ducks by biologist **Bruce Lyon**.

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in the _San Bernardino Sun_ about the impact of neighborhood blight on crime rates.

Assistant professor of theater arts **David Cuthbert** contributed an article to _Entertainment Design_ about landing a job as a lighting designer for a Broadway show starring Billy Crystal.

**Erik Asphaug**, associate professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story about asteroids on _Space.com_.

**Kathy Keenan,** who teaches business and marketing writing at UCSC Extension, was quoted in a _New York Times_ story about the sorry state of written communication in the workplace.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _Mid-County Post_ ran stories quoting head of special collections **Christine Bunting** about a $500,000 gift from the late Miller and Bunny Outcalt to benefit the photographic archives in the Library.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ published a blurb about the new book by sociologist **Patricia Allen**.  

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/12-13/news.asp "Permalink to news")
