---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2482
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Astronomers <b>Sandra Faber</b> and <b>Garth Illingworth</b> were widely quoted in news stories about NASA's decision to no longer service the Hubble Space Telescope, saying the decision is a mistake. The stories appeared in the <i>New York Times, Houston Chronicle, Ft. Worth Star-Telegram, San Francisco Chronicle, Sunday Times</i> (London), and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Quotes by linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> were featured prominently in an article on the back page of the <i>New York Times</i> Week in Review section about the possibility that writers might run out of words to describe how cold it has been in New York City.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Todd Newberry,</b> professor emeritus of biology, was quoted in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about potential effects on migrating birds of a proposed tower at the Beach Boardwalk.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of history and Oakes College provost <b>Pedro Castillo</b> was quoted in a <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> article about the return of "flagging"--the process of marking certain nontraditional grant applications for extra review--to the National Endowment for the Humanities.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> ran a cover story about biologist <b>Barry Sinervo</b>'s research on the reproductive behavior of lizards.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>David Koo</b> was quoted in an article in <i>USA Today</i> about research on the formation of giant galaxies.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts professor and department chair <b>Danny Scheie</b> was quoted in <i>BackStage</i> on the subject of comic timing.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Frank Drake,</b> professor emeritus of astronomy, was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> essay about how people might react if scientists discovered evidence of life on Mars.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Greg Laughlin</b> was quoted in a story in <i>National Geographic News</i> about the likelihood of Earthlike planets elsewhere in the universe.
</p>
<p>
  Indiana's <i>Palladium-Item</i> ran an article about a speech given by history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> at Earlham College in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, where she noted that living in a colorblind society that does not discuss race is not the same as living in an equitable society that treats all its members the same way.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A story about electronic voting machines in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine included a quote from <b>Robert Kibrick,</b> a computer scientist and research astronomer at UCO/Lick Observatory.
</p>
<p>
  A front-page story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> on people who move closer to work to cut their commute featured UCSC staffers <b>Sunny McFadden</b> and <b>John</b> and <b>Lisa Bono.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <b>UCSC Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection</b> was cited in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about the restoration of Ray's films and the recent release of a documentary about the acclaimed Indian filmmaker.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/01-26/news.html "Permalink to news")
