---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/bar_coding.180.jpg
    - caption: "Campus firefighter Lee Rossi practices using the new hand-held scanner for campus inventory. Photo: Louise Donahue"
  -
    - file: ../art/shelly_and_chicken.200.jpg
    - caption: "Visiting with the Farm's chickens will be on the schedule at the Life Lab spring camp. Pictured here: Shelly holding DD Buttercup Photo: Peter Armstrong"
---

More News

Scanners designed to ease campus inventory   

Paper and pencil are on their way out for the annual campus inventory. Beginning in March, hand-held laser scanners that look and function similar to a Palm Pilot will be used instead.  

"It's going to be a quicker and more efficient way for the campus to collect and update its data," said Julie Ola, UCSC's equipment manager, noting that the new system will be made available in March. "It takes a fraction of the time."  
Bar-coded property number labels were placed on all campus equipment earlier to prepare for the switch.  

"There will be less margin for error," Ola said of the scanners, explaining that the scanner requires users to fill in all categories, so nothing is overlooked.  
  
"It's a simple program to follow. Anyone who's ever used a computer will be comfortable using this," said Ola, who worked with Nutan Kopel, the equipment management assistant, to develop and implement the change. By hiring a programmer to adapt an existing scanning program, rather than create one from scratch, the new system came in at about half its projected budget, Ola said.  

Inventory will be conducted as usual from March 1 to June 1. Those wanting to sign out a scanner should call equipment management at (831) 459-2355.  
top

Life Lab Garden Classroom offers spring break day camp for kids

Children 7 to 11 are invited to join the staff at the UCSC Farm April 5-9 for spring gardening, cooking, and crafts.

Campers will prepare and eat wood-fired garden pizzas, pop fall-harvest popcorn, and roast sunflower seeds. Gardening activities will include seed sowing for home gardens, taking cuttings, composting, and planting. Garden-based crafts will round out an exciting week of activities.

The camp is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. each day, and the cost is $230/$200 for Life Lab Science Program members.

For more information, contact John Fisher at (831) 459-4035 or [gardencoordinator@lifelab.org][1].  
top

Alumni offer career advice for engineering students  

A panel of UCSC alumni working in the high-tech industry will give career advice to engineering students on Thursday, February 26, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in Baskin Engineering Room 152.   

The following panelists will share information about their careers and the organizations they work for and answer questions from students:  

* Bob Ramer, quality assurance engineer at Hewlett-Packard, earned a B.A. in computer and information sciences in 1982;  
* Kelsey Schwind, software engineer at Adobe Systems, earned a B.A. in computer science in 1994;   
* Alberto Fitting, optical engineer at ANDevices, earned a B.S. in electrical engineering in 2001;  
* Christy Martin, founder of iBox Systems, earned a B.A. in computer science in 1988; and   
* Brian Chess, founder and chief scientist of Fortify Software, earned a Ph.D. in computer engineering in 2002.   

The event is sponsored by the Baskin School of Engineering, the Multicultural Engineering Program, and the Career Center. It was organized in recognition of National Engineers Week 2004.  
top

CPR Heartsaver class offered by Recreation Department

In response to popular demand, the Recreation Department is offering another CPR Heartsaver class. It will be held on Friday, February 27, from 6 - 8:30 p.m. in the OPERS Conference Room at the East Field House. The class, which will be taught by Jim Novotny, is intended to prepare individuals to provide care for breathing and cardiac emergencies including performing adult, child, and infant CPR, rescue breathing, accessing Emergency Medical Services, and preventing disease transmission. The cost is $20 for UCSC students, $25 general. American Heart certification issued upon completion. Sign up in advance.  
top

Oscar night party at the UCenter February 29  

the [University Center][2] invites the campus community to "Oscar Night" on February 29 from 4:30 to 10 p.m. The evening starts with a reception hour during the Oscars "pre-show" followed by a buffet dinner as the show begins. All are encouraged to dress to impress as UCenter staff roll out the red carpet. It is sure to be an exciting night for all in attendance.

Tickets are on sale now - $30 for members and $35 for nonmembers. Shuttle service from the Barn Lot will be provided starting at 4 p.m. The deadline for purchasing ticket is noon on Friday, February 27. For more information, contact Janice Clark at (831) 459-4321, [clarkj@ucsc.edu][3].  
top

UC tops annual list of universities receiving patents

For the 10th consecutive year, the University of California is the leader among the nation's universities in developing new patents, according to a report announced this month by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The report presents a preliminary list of the U.S. universities receiving the most patents for invention (i.e., utility patents) during the 2003 calendar year.  

In California, UC research and workforce development has been crucial in the state's economic growth and global competitiveness, especially in the key industry clusters of biotechnology, telecommunications, information technology, and electronics manufacturing. More than 300 R&D-intensive firms in California have been founded by UC scientists and engineers.

See full text of [press release][4]  
top  

Winter groundbreaking likely for Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Groundbreaking is expected this winter for the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building. The project will consist of three buildings located at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives on what is now a parking lot northwest of Cowell College. [Construction update story][5]  
[ ][6]top   
  

[Return to Front Page][7]  

[1]: mailto:gardencoordinator@lifelab.org
[2]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu
[3]: mailto:clarkj@ucsc.edu
[4]: http://www.ucop.edu/news/archives/2004/feb17.htm
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[7]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-23/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
