---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Professor of ocean sciences **Peggy Delaney** was quoted in an article that ran in newspapers around the country about the new Integrated Ocean Drilling Program, an international cooperative research program she helped plan. The story appeared in the _Seattle Times, Philadelphia Inquirer, Charlotte Observer,_ and _Duluth News-Tribune,_ among others.

**Pedro Castillo,** professor of history and member of the National Endowment for the Humanities Council, was quoted in a _London Times Higher Education Supplement_ article about the Republican Right's "hijack of U.S. science."

The _Chronicle of Higher Education_ talked with **Greta Gibson** of education and anthropology for a story about two new books that discuss immigration and assimilation issues.   

The_ Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about the Hubble Space Telescope featuring **Garth Illingworth,** professor of astronomy and astrophysics. Illingworth has also been quoted in stories about the telescope in _Aviation Week_ and _Space Technology_ and _Space News_ (at _Space.com)._  

Music lecturer **Barry Green** was featured in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about his upcoming bass recital as part of the Cabrillo College Distinguished Artist series.

The _San Francisco Chronicle_'s coverage of the impact of jobs moving offshore was enhanced by analysis provided by economist **Lori Kletzer,** whose work was also covered in a report by Inter Press Service. . . . Also in economics, **David Kaun** was interviewed by KPFA Radio, critiquing Bush's justification of his tax cuts.

**Pete Raimondi,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a story in the _Orange County Register_ about the effects of coastal power plants on marine life.   

An article about tsunamis in _Science News_ magazine included a section on research by geophysicist **Steven Ward.**

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-22/news.html "Permalink to news")
