---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Associate professor of literature **Kirsten Silva Gruesz** was featured in a _Chronicle of Higher Education_ article about the profusion of buzzwords in the field of American studies.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a lengthy profile of filmmaker and community studies prof **Renee Tajima-Pena** on the eve of the PBS television premiere of two of her films. The _San Jose Mercury News_ also wrote about Tajima-Pena's work in conjunction with the broadcasts.

Sociology's **Ben Crow** was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about new alternatives to traditional publications that have become available to faculty researchers.

National Public Radio's _Morning Edition_ program tapped sociology instructor **Mike Males** for comment on teen curfews.

In psychology, capital punishment expert **Craig Haney** was prominently quoted in a _Modesto Bee_ article about the jurors in the trial of Scott Peterson.

The_ San Francisco Chronicle_ noted that theater arts professor **Mark Franko** was the choreographer of _Caesura,_ an upcoming Bay Area production.

Psychology instructor **Donald Saposnek** was quoted in a Columbia News Service story that appeared in the _Chicago Tribune_ and other newspapers about an innovative martial arts therapy that helps children with mild behavioral disorders.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ noted that music professor **Linda Burman-Hall** was a judge in the Santa Cruz Baroque Festival's second annual Youth Chamber Music Contest held at UCSC.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-05/news.html "Permalink to news")
