---
layout: post
title: "Gala Scholarships Benefit Dinner to honor former Chancellor Greenwood"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
---

Supporters of UC Santa Cruz will have a chance to invest in tomorrow's leaders while honoring one of today's when they gather for the gala Scholarships Benefit Dinner on November 6\.

In addition to raising funds for scholarships and graduate fellowships, a highlight of the evening will be the awarding of the UC Santa Cruz Foundation Medal to M.R.C. Greenwood, former UC Santa Cruz chancellor and now UC provost and senior vice president, academic affairs.

The campus raised a record $32.2 million in private support in the 2003-04 fiscal year (see earlier [Currents story][1]) and has ambitious plans to raise additional funds for student support.

A cocktail reception and silent auction will begin at 6 p.m. at the University Center, followed by dinner at the Colleges Nine and Ten Dining Room downstairs. The cost of the dinner is $150 per person, and RSVPs are due by October 22, at (831) 459-5075, or e-mailed to [kpalma@ucsc.edu][2]. Valet parking is available.

Although only in its second year, the Scholarships Benefit Dinner has become the premier fundraising event for UC Santa Cruz. More than $500,000 was raised for undergraduate and graduate student support at the 2003 dinner, which honored UC President Emeritus Richard C. Atkinson with the first UC Santa Cruz Foundation Medal.

Cohosts of the event are Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers, UC Santa Cruz Foundation President Kenneth Feingold (Cowell '71), and UCSC Alumni Council President Kenneth Doctor (Merrill '71).

"It has been extremely gratifying to see our alumni and trustees reach out to offer a helping hand to students struggling with the financial challenges of higher education in a time of limited state funding," said University Relations Vice Chancellor Ronald P. Suduiko. "The fact that they are taking major leadership roles underscores their commitment."

Other volunteers serving on the planning committee are Foundation trustees Harriet Deck, Susan Hammer, Anne Levin, and Patricia Rebele (Porter '88).

More students than ever need financial assistance. In 2003-04, UC Santa Cruz provided financial support for nearly 8,000 of its undergraduates--up from 5,700 seven years ago.

The current estimated cost of a four-year undergraduate degree at UC Santa Cruz, including fees, books, insurance, and living expenses, is about $85,000. Low-income families have been especially hard-hit by increased costs. In 2000, fees and tuition at public four-year institutions consumed 25 percent of family income for low-income families.

Honoring former Chancellor Greenwood--who once received scholarship help herself--is particularly meaningful, said Suduiko.

"No one knows better than M.R.C. Greenwood how scholarships can transform students' lives, allowing them to take full advantage of the opportunities UC Santa Cruz offers," he said.

As chancellor of UC Santa Cruz from 1996 to spring 2004, M.R.C. Greenwood contributed to many campus scholarships, served as a mentor in the Chancellor's Undergraduate Internship Program, and pioneered innovative new academic programs.

The Foundation Medal recognizes people of exceptionally distinguished achievement whose work and contributions to society illustrate the ideals and vision of UC Santa Cruz.

  

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/09-20/fundraising.asp
[2]: mailto:kpalma@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-18/dinner.asp "Permalink to dinner")
