---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 4090
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  A television crew from the United Kingdom spent a day at Long Marine Lab last week filming an episode of <i>The Jeff Corwin Experience,</i> a wildlife adventure series on the Discovery Channel. Ms. Blue, the blue whale skeleton on display at the Seymour Center, will be featured in a segment of the show about blue whales in Monterey Bay.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist Adrienne Zihlman's new research about wild chimpanzee growth rates was covered in <i>Science</i> and <i>Science News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Mark Carr, associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a story in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about plans to create a network of protected marine reserves along the California coast.<i><br></i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Oregonian</i> turned to labor economist Lori Kletzer for comment in the final installment of a three-part series on trade schools and job retraining programs
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the new elephant seal sculpture at the Seymour Center, with quotes from center director Julie Heffington and Long Marine Lab manager Steve Davenport.
</p>
<p>
  In an article in <i>Black Issues in Higher Education,</i> vice chancellor for student affairs Francisco Hernandez warned that UC needs to be careful making changes in university eligibility requirements to avoid disproportionately impacting disadvantaged students, many of whom are underrepresented minorities.
</p>
<p>
  Economist Rob Fairlie was interviewed by National Public Radio for a story on informal lending networks among immigrant business owners.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald, Salinas Californian,</i> and <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> all ran favorable reviews of biologist Terrie Williams's book <i>The Hunter's Breath.</i>
</p>
<p>
  An influential paper about the international monetary system by economist Mike Dooley was featured in the <i>Australian Financial Review.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-09/news.html "Permalink to news")
