---
layout: post
title: "Banana Slug Spring Fair draws record crowd"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/crowd.04-04-26.240.jpg
    - caption: 
---

Banana Slug Spring Fair drew a record number of alumni to a weekend packed with 42 scheduled events and plenty of chances to get reacquainted.  

"It was by far our most successful reunion weekend ever, with the largest number of events and the largest number of alumni returning to campus," said Alumni Association Executive Director Carolyn Christopherson.  

A new event this year was an alumni panel discussion featuring graduates from the Class of '74.

The panel represented a range of professions, from the arts to business to journalism. Featured speakers were Julie Packard, founder and executive director of the Monterey Bay Aquarium; Katherine ("Katy") Roberts, editor of the_ New York Times_ Week in Review; Don Wallace, award-winning journalist, novelist, and editor; and Nion McEvoy, chairman and CEO of Chronicle Books.   

In addition to the strong alumni turnout, the April 16-18 alumni weekend benefited greatly from having more faculty and staff members involved in the programs, planning, and coordination than ever, said Christopherson. "We are grateful to have such strong support."  

Alumni generosity at the event was heartening in a time of tight state budgets, she noted. Several alumni donated money for their colleges that could be matched by contributions from others, helping raise approximately $80,000 for the colleges. Overall, alumni celebrating reunions this year donated almost $245,000 for programs throughout the campus.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-26/bssf.html "Permalink to bssf")
