---
layout: post
title: "Staff, non-senate academics get another chance at housing"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hagar_court.04-08-09.jpg
    - caption: 
---

Staff members who did not sign up for the campus housing lottery in the summer of 2003 have been given another chance to get on the waiting list.

UCSC is temporarily suspending until November 30 the "lottery cutoff" provision in the Housing Access Policy.

Under that provision, staff members and academics who were not members of the Academic Senate had just one opportunity to get their names on a waiting list for housing.

During the waiver period, staff and non-senate academics employed at the time of the July 15, 2003, housing lotteries who did not enroll for those lotteries will be allowed to append themselves to waiting lists on a first-come, first-served basis.   

Applicants must have a 100 percent time, minimum one-year career appointment and they must not have previously applied for housing.  

The waiver does not apply to those hired after July 15, 2003, or to senate faculty, who may apply for the waiting list at any time.

Briefings for potential applicants will be scheduled in August or September. To check on briefing dates or apply for the waiting list, e-mail [facultyhousing@ucsc.edu][1] or call (831) 458-3506.

Two factors have prompted the waiver, said faculty and staff housing manager Steve Houser. With 50 units at Hagar Court, 13 at Laureate Court, and 80 at Ranch View Terrace, scheduled for completion in 2006, the amount of housing stock has grown. In addition, there has been considerable attrition on the staff and non-senate academics' waiting lists. From the original 203 people on the list, just 116 remain, Houser said.

So far, Houser said, 17 staff members and 7 non-senate academics have bought homes in Hagar Court.  

**Related links:**

[Residents moving into Hagar Court Condominiums][2]  
  
[Faculty and staff housing for sale][3]

[1]: mailto:facultyhousing@ucsc.edu
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/12-01/condos.html
[3]: http://www.housing.ucsc.edu/housing/forsale.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-09/housing.html "Permalink to housing")
