---
layout: post
title: "Faculty, staff, students bid fond farewell to Chancellor Greenwood"
author: Elizabeth Irwin
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/flowers.04-03-22.200.jpg
    - caption: " "
  -
    - file: ../art/mrcg.mhc2.04-03-22.275.jpg
    - caption: "Click to see additional photos of the University Center reception"
---

Faculty, staff, and students crowded the University Center on March 18 to bid goodbye to Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood as she prepares to move on to her new position as UC provost and senior vice president.

Hundreds gathered for the event, a chance for members of the campus community to offer their best wishes to Greenwood and share some lighter moments.

Co-chaired by Provost Martin M. Chemers, Senate Chair Alison Galloway, and Staff Advisory Board Chair Rachel Huff, the reception drew a cross-section of the campus community.  

Chemers, who will assume responsibilities as acting chancellor on April 1, invited the gathering to visualize the stereotypical Civil War general astride a horse and shouting "charge!" That, he joked, is something like what it feels like to work with Chancellor Greenwood. More seriously, he praised Greenwood's dynamic leadership and thanked her for inspiring "such an array of outstanding initiatives" over the past eight years.  

Galloway thanked Greenwood for the "remarkable turnaround in the shared governance system" and for "leaving us with enough confidence that we can comfortably accept your departure."  

Among the gifts that Galloway presented the chancellor was a copy of _Flex_ magazine, a publication for body builders, intended to help "impress the governor," in the chancellor's new post.  

Representing staff, Huff read the "Top Ten Reasons UC Santa Cruz will Miss M.R.C. Greenwood," a compilation of ideas from the members of the Staff Advisory Board. Among them were "Her candor," "amazing energy," "her respect for and appreciation of staff," "her accessibility and advocacy for staff," and "her genuine pride in all employees."  

Huff also noted the "Top Ten Things M.R.C. Greenwood will Miss About UC Santa Cruz," a list that included "Banana Slugs," "comments about parking at staff forums," "amazing staff," and "unparalleled faculty."  

Emily Moberg Robinson, chair of the Graduate Student Association, praised Greenwood for being "very responsive to our concerns" and noted that her "people skills are amazing." She also commented that "a woman in such a powerful position" is a positive role model.  

UCSC graduate Teresa Morales, former member of the Chancellor's Undergraduate Internship Program, thanked the chancellor for her inspiration and mentorship. "I admire your fortitude and devotion to educating students. You are my hero."   

Heather Mietz Egli, a member of the SAB and co-chair of the Women at Work Retreat, presented a gift basket with thanks for the chancellor's support of that program.  

The reception culminated with remarks from the chancellor, who thanked faculty and staff, students, the senior administration, and her immediate staff for "some of the most wonderful memories of my life."   

Nearly overcome with the emotion of the moment, Greenwood said, "For eight years, you've given me a gift of your confidence. Together, we've moved this campus forward, and I have great faith that you will continue the upward trajectory."  

In recognition of the chancellor's dedication to science education, the Academic Senate and Staff Advisory Board have teamed up to start a fund supporting the Marine Science for Girls program at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center. For information on how to contribute, contact Rachel Huff at [rhuff@ucsc.edu][1]).  
  

[1]: mailto:rhuff@ucsc.edu

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-22/farewell.html "Permalink to farewell")
