---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/hamlet_2003.150.jpg
    - caption: "Jacqueline van Bennen, Ryan Artzberger (center), and Lucas Alifano in SSC's 2003 production of Hamlet. Photo: Steve DiBartolomeo"
---

Awards and Honors

Shakespeare Santa Cruz receives National Endowment for the Arts Award to expand outreach program  

The National Endowment for the Arts has just announced that Shakespeare Santa Cruz (SSC) is one of 22 theater companies nationwide chosen to tour Shakespeare performances as part of the NEA's Shakespeare in American Communities program.  

The program, titled Shakespeare for a New Generation, will provide matching funds for Shakespeare Santa Cruz to expand its acclaimed outreach program, Shakespeare To Go. This project will tour middle schools and high schools in Santa Cruz, Monterey, and Santa Clara Counties. _Henry IV, Part One,_ has been selected for the tour, with projected performances in more than 20 schools in the spring of 2005.  

"It's an honor to participate with some of the best theaters and Shakespeare festivals across the country on a project of national scale that will reach into schools all over the country," said SSC managing director Marcus Cato.   

"This NEA funding will enhance our Shakespeare to Go program--which has been touring locally since 1984--with improved artistic elements as well as a new orientation session with students. We're excited about the opportunity to reach new schools and students that may have never seen a live Shakespeare performance before," Cato added.  

For more information, contact Kerry Atchison at Shakespeare Santa Cruz, (831) 459-3160, or Marcus Cato, (831) 459-3162.  
top

**Danny Scheie wins Goodman Award  
**

Danny Scheie, professor and chair of UCSC's Theater Arts Department, has received the Dean Goodman Choice Award for Outstanding Achievement in Theatre under the category of direction, for his work with Center Rep/Walnut Creek. Dean Goodman Choice Award winners are selected annually from more than 200 productions.   
top

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-03/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
