---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Women's studies professor **Bettina Aptheker** was quoted in the _Oakland Tribune, San Mateo Country Times,_ the _Argus, Tri-Valley Herald,_ and the _Daily Review_ in stories about the 40th anniversary of the Free Speech Movement at UC Berkeley.

**Stan Woosley,** professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in _Science News_ magazine in a story about new images of a supernova remnant. Woosley was also interviewed by BBC Radio's Leading Edge" program for a story about recent x-ray flashes from space that may signal supernova explosions.

Doctoral candidate **Max Boykoff** of environmental studies continues to get calls on his analysis of media coverage of global warming, most recently from KSCN Radio in Los Angeles, _Metro Silicon Valley, _and _Clean Air-Cool Planet._

**Garth Illingworth,** professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in a story about the Hubble Ultra Deep Field images of the early universe. The story ran in Knight-Ridder newspapers throughout the country, including the _Kansas City Star, Tallahassee Democrat, Charlotte Observer, Lexington Herald,_ and_ Duluth News Tribune._

The _Statesman Journal_ of Salem, Oregon, cited research on small-business ownership by economist **Rob Fairlie** in a story about Latino business networks.

**Susan Schwartz,** director of the Keck Seismology Laboratory, was interviewed by KSBW-TV about the recent seismic activity at Mount St. Helens volcano.

The _Nation's Health_ covered a recent trip by **Nancy Stoller** of community studies, who toured prison facilities in the United Kingdom as part of her research on inmate health.

The _Monterey County Herald_ ran a story about a talk by **Jim Estes,** adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, as part of Sea Otter Awareness Week.

Arts & Lectures director **Michelle Witt** was quoted in a _Metro Santa Cruz_ feature on the 2004-05 performing arts season. The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _Good Times_ also ran stories about the new lineup.

The _Salinas Californian_ ran a story about an internship program at UCSC's Center for Adaptive Optics, featuring **Lisa Hunter,** CfAO's associate director of education and human resources.

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-11/news.asp "Permalink to news")
