---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/climber_timmy.180.jpg
    - caption: "Climber Timmy O'Neill will present a multimedia show to benefit the Wilderness Orientation Program. Photo: Red Point Creative"
  -
    - file: ../art/limetree.180.jpg
    - caption: "Bearss lime trees will be a hot item at the Farm & Garden Spring Plant Sale May 1-2. Photo: Jennifer McNulty"
  -
    - file: ../art/octopus_drawing.200.jpg
    - caption: "Giant Octopus by Alison Kendall, ink on scratchboard"
  -
    - file: ../art/exhib_arboret.180.jpg
    - caption: "Photo: C. Waters"
---

News Briefs

Sweet limes, apple trees, and salad bowls debut at UCSC Farm & Garden Spring Plant Sale May 1-2  
  
Psst! Here's a hot tip for gardeners: Whether your summer tastes lean toward limeade or margaritas, you'll want to pick up a Bearss lime tree at the annual UC Santa Cruz Farm & Garden Spring Plant Sale.  

The sale, which features a dazzling array of organically raised vegetables, annual flowers, perennials, and herbs, will take place Saturday and Sunday, May 1-2, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Barn Theater parking lot at the intersection of Bay and High Streets at the base of campus.  

The Bearss lime tree, also known as the Tahitian lime, bears a yellow fruit with a unique flavor somewhere between a lemon and a lime. The handsome shrub with dark green foliage thrives on the Central Coast. Available in one-gallon containers, the trees are priced to please at $6 each.  

Also new this year is a limited selection of dwarf apple trees, including the best of the Farm & Garden's heirloom and modern varieties. Grafted on root stock, these one-year-old trees won't bear fruit for two or three years, but the $6 price can't be beat. Varieties include Chehalis, Elstar, Fall Russet, Freyburg, Fuji, Golden Russet, Grime's Golden, Hudson's Golden Gem, Jonagold, Mollie's Delicious, Mutsu, and Yellow Newtown Pippin.  

Finally, just in time for Mother's Day, the sale will feature 10-inch "salad bowls" preplanted with four to six varieties of half-grown salad greens, including a mix of mini romaines, heirloom butterhead lettuces, and cutting salad greens. Each bowl should yield two or three harvests for the ultimate in fresh salads.  

As always, the selection will include more than 200 plant species, including heirloom varieties of tomatoes, as well as hot, mild, and sweet peppers. Six-packs of lettuces, broccoli, cauliflower, salad mix, and Asian greens will also be available. All plants are proven to grow well in the local area.   

Sponsored by the Friends of the Farm & Garden and the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems, the sale benefits the UCSC Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture. Members of the Friends will receive early entry from 9 to 10 a.m. on Saturday only and a 10 percent discount on purchases; memberships will be available at the sale beginning at 8:30 a.m. For more information, call (831) 459-3240.  
top

'Illustrating Nature' exhibit opens at Santa Cruz Museum of Natural History

The 2004 Illustrating Nature exhibit, featuring student works from the science illustration track of the Science Communication Program, will be on display May 1 through June 6 at the Santa Cruz Museum of Natural History.

The show features 69 pieces in a wide array of techniques. This years diverse group of illustrations covers subjects from zoology and botany to astronomy and anatomical reconstruction. Students will be providing a demonstration of techniques at the museum on Saturday, May 15, from 10 a.m. to noon.  

The museum is located at 1305 East Cliff Drive in Santa Cruz and is open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. A $2.50 donation is requested. For more information, call the museum at (831) 420-6115 or or the Science Communication Program at (831) 459-4475.  
top

Central Coast landscapes by Art Department faculty and alumni at Arboretum spring exhibition May 3-30  

An exhibition of works by faculty and alumni of the UCSC Art Department, titled The Natural Gaze: Landscapes of the Central Coast, will be featured at UCSC's Arboretum from May 3 to 30. A reception, including a panel discussion by the artists, will also take place on Saturday, May 8, from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m.   

The exhibition vividly demonstrates the depth and range of interest in California coastal imagery among UCSC's faculty and alumni. Cocurated by art professor Frank Galuszka and department chair Norman Locks, the show gathers together painted and photographic landscape works by four faculty and two alumni artists, each created on location in the plein air tradition. "Given the interpretative emphasis upon Central Coast botanica, here at the Arboretum, this is an obvious and perfect setting for the show," said Galuszka.   

The Arboretum exhibition will showcase paintings of Elkhorn Slough by art professor Jennie McDade, as well as paintings by Galuszka. Also displayed will be elegiac seascapes by alumnus painter Noah Buchanan, who teaches painting at Cabrillo College, the College of San Mateo, and through UCSC Extension. Representing photography will be the work of Professor Locks, Ken Alley, a UCSC lecturer in photography whose work explores the wetlands of Waddell Creek, and Andrew Stanbridge, an alum and teaching assistant at UCSC.  

The Arboretum gallery is open daily from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and is wheelchair accessible. Admission is free. For more information, contact the Sesnon Gallery (831) 459-3606.  
top

Professors host workshop on fur seal research

Three UCSC professors hosted 18 scholars at a Pacific Rim-funded research planning workshop on northern fur seals in historical perspective that was held April 16 -19 at Long Marine Laboratory's Seymour Marine Discovery Center.  
The gathering of researchers from Russia, Canada, the United States, and Mexico was hosted by Dan Costa, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, Diane Gifford-Gonzalez, professor of anthropology, and Paul Koch, professor of Earth sciences.   

Participants reviewed the present status of fur seals and archaeological evidence that they were historically more widely distributed from Alaska to California. Participants included archaeologists, DNA experts, geologists, historical ecologists, and experts on modern northern and southern fur seal behavioral ecology and management.   

Workshop members spent three days in plenary sessions and smaller focus groups, defining broad research questions and strategies and identifying funding sources to support further research. Field trips to Ano Nuevo State Reserve and Elkhorn Slough enriched participants' knowledge of the Monterey Bay region.  
top

Information technology award available for UC faculty and staff  

The University of California is seeking applications for the [Larry L. Sautter Award][1] for Innovation in Information Technology.  

The award, named for Larry Sautter, UC Riverside's former associate vice chancellor for computing and communications, is open to faculty and staff from all UC campuses, offices, and labs. The honor recognizes information technology innovations that have the potential to improve how the university operates.  

The Sautter Award is available in two categories: Golden Awards for best practices and innovation/entrepreneurship, and Silver Awards for achievement in computing. Applications must be submitted by June 1. [Application information][2] (pdf file) [Additional information][1]  

Award winners will be announced at the UC Computing Services Conference to be held August 1-3 at UC Riverside. Recipients will receive a commemorative wall plaque for permanent local display and will have the opportunity to give presentations about their projects at the conference.  
top

Climber known as 'Urban Ape' to speak at Rio Theater

Timmy O'Neill, an elite climber who combines stand-up comedy with tales of his adventures, will present the multimedia show "Outside University" on Friday, April 30, at the Rio Theater in Santa Cruz.  

O'Neill is known in climbing circles for his occasional exploits scaling city buildings, chronicled in his award-winning film short _Urban Ape._ He has also explored the world's great mountain ranges in the last several years, from Pakistan to Patagonia, and has climbed most recently in Greenland and Cuba.   

The 7:30 p.m. show is part of a national [_Outside][3]_ magazine tour of colleges and universities designed to promote an active lifestyle. O'Neill's Santa Cruz appearance is sponsored by UCSC's [Wilderness Orientation Program][4], with proceeds going toward scholarships for incoming students participating in the Wilderness Orientation Program.   

General admission to the program is $9; the cost for students is $7. Tickets are available in advance at Bugaboo Sports and Pacific Edge Climbing Gym in Santa Cruz and at the door the night of the event.   
top

Lunchtime chair massages offered  

The Holistic Health program at UCSC is offering lunchtime chair massages at various campus locations from some of the program's top students. A 20-minute massage costs $10; a 40-minute massage is $20. Massages will be available on May 6, May 13, May 20, and May 27. Call (831) 459-2668 to reserve a time.  
top

Helpers needed to restore native plants

Volunteers have two opportunities in May to help out with native plant restoration projects at UCSC.  

On May 1, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., the Site Stewardship organization will be planting native plant material for the group's restoration project on the berm separating Long Marine Lab from Younger Lagoon. Participants should meet at the patio in front of the Center for Ocean Health by 10 a.m., and note whether they need a ride from campus when they RSVP at [grounds_interns@ucsc.edu][5].   

On May 23, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., volunteers may join the Campus Natural Reserves for exotic/invasive species removal from the coastal strand at the Younger Lagoon Reserve. Participants should RSVP at [mcstay@ucsc.edu][6], meet at 10 a.m. at the UCSC Barn Theater, and carpool to Younger Lagoon.   

For both days, volunteers should wear sturdy closed-toe shoes, dress in layers, and bring water and lunch; snacks will be provided.   
top

Academic Information Systems holding sessions  

Academic Information Systems will host two events in May at the Stevenson Event Center (formerly Stevenson Dining Hall).  

The topic of the first session is "What do you need to do to prepare yourself to help a student with priority enrollment in AIS for fall 2004?" It will be from 10 a.m. to noon, May 3. Continuing students will be using AIS for fall 2004 priority enrollment beginning May 19.

On May 14, from 10 a.m. to noon, the topic will be "How does a student use AIS priority enrollment for fall 2004?"  

For more information check the web site at [ais.ucsc.edu][7].  
top   

Learn East Indian cuisine from Chef Jozseph Schultz

On Thursday, April 29, let Chef Jozseph, formerly of India Joze Restaurant, show you the techniques to whip up feasts for all occasions. Appetizers, relishes/salsas/chutneys, fresh breads, curries, rice dishes, desserts, and more. Experienced cooks and neophytes alike are enthusiastic about this blend of culinary, anthropological, and nutritional tips. Vegetarians and carnivores welcome. Participants will help with clean up; sign up in advance. Instructor Jozseph Schultz has been teaching the world's cuisines for over 25 years and instructs courses for Cabrillo College Culinary Institute. The class will take place in the kitchen at the Village on campus from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m.; the cost is $28, which Includes instruction and full dinner. Register by calling the Recreation Office at (831) 459-2806.  
top

Preparation work under way for Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Soil preparation work for the new Humanities and Social Sciences Building at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives is continuing. The $29 million project will provide offices, classrooms, and research space for the Divisions of Humanities and Social Sciences.  
[ Construction update story][8]  
[ ][9]top  

[Return to Front Page][10]

[1]: http://www.ucop.edu/irc/itlc/sautter/
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/irc/itlc/sautter/progannounce04.pdf
[3]: http://www.outsidemag.com
[4]: http://studentaffairs.ucsc.edu/opers/wo/index.cfm
[5]: mailto:grounds_interns@ucsc.edu
[6]: mailto: mcstay@ucsc.edu
[7]: http://ais.ucsc.edu
[8]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[9]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[10]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-26/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
