---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/swim_meet.180.jpg
    - caption: "Masters swimmers celebrate a successful UCSC event. larger photo"
  -
    - file: ../art/haddad_brent.140.jpg
    - caption: "Brent Haddad to give first talk in Synergy lecture series."
  -
    - file: ../art/taiaiake_alfred.gif
    - caption: "Indigenous leader Taiaiake Alfred will speak on campus April 22."
  -
    - file: ../art/crowd.04-04-19.180.jpg
    - caption: 
---

News Briefs

Prospective UCSC students speak out for outreach programs

Approximately 150 prospective UCSC students, touring the campus on Friday,  
staged a rally to raise support for the outreach programs that Governor  
Schwarzenegger's 2004-05 budget proposal would eliminate.

The midday rally began at Quarry Plaza and ended with a march through campus to the Women's Center. Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers and Interim Campus Provost Margaret Delaney were in attendance, lending support to the threatened programs--and the access they foster.

"Access to education should be like a baseball game," the chancellor said.  
"The field should be level and everyone should know the rules. And that's  
what access is all about."

Brent Haddad to be inaugural speaker for new Science & Engineering Library lecture series  

The Science & Engineering Library has announced a new lecture series, titled "[Synergy: Explorations in Science and Society][1]," which will focus on UCSC research, as well as teaching and grants in science and engineering, with a view toward their impact on society. The first lecture will feature Brent Haddad, associate professor of environmental studies, on April 27 at 4 p.m. in the S&E Library Current Periodicals Room.

Haddad's lecture, titled "Not an Accident? Understanding Why One Billion People Worldwide Lack Reliable Drinking Water," will explore how Coalition Theory, a branch of economic game theory applied to international relations, can help explain who gets reliable drinking water and who doesn't. Haddad will also discuss his recommendations for improving worldwide access to drinking water.

Haddad is an authority on water issues and in 1999 published the book _Rivers of Gold: Designing Markets to Allocate Water in California._ He is currently working on a new book in which he will discuss the issue of worldwide potable water.   

Go to the [Synergy][1] lecture series web site for more information. Faculty interested in participating as upcoming speakers should contact Catherine Soehner at the Science & Engineering Library, (831) 459-1554 or [soehner@ucsc.edu][2].  
top

Executive Budget Committee forum update is April 21

Academic advising is the subject of the next in a series of Executive Budget Committee updates sponsored by the Staff Advisory Board. All staff members are invited to the forum from 2 to 3 p.m. Wednesday, April 21, in Thimann Lecture Hall 3.

Masters Swimming Championships held at UCSC

UCSC played host April 2-4 to the 2004 [Pacific Masters Swimming][3]  
Championships, an event that raised more than $17,000 for UCSC's aquatic  
programs.

More than 750 swimmers, ages 19 to 90, participated in the weekend event, held at the East Field House pool.  

Nine masters national records were broken. See [complete results][4]. One of the record-breaking swimmers was Tod Spieker (400 individual medley record), who has been a longtime supporter of UCSC's aquatic programs and is a trustee of the UC Santa Cruz Foundation. His gifts enabled the campus to purchase the pool's original computerized timing and scoreboard system and funded a recent upgrade to the system.  
top  

Canadian Indigenous leader to speak at Merrill College

[Taiaiake Alfred,][5] a Kanien'kehaka (Mohawk) philosopher, writer, and teacher, will give a talk on Thursday, April 22, at the Merrill College Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. His presentation, titled "Wasase - Indigenous Pathways to Freedom," will focus on the collective struggle for self-determination of Indigenous peoples.  

Taiaiake is a prominent voice in scholarly circles and an award-winning journalist known for his passionate and incisive commentary on politics and culture. As a young man, he served as an infantryman in the U.S. Marine Corps, and later earned a bachelor's degree in history from Concordia University and a Ph.D. in government from Cornell University. He holds a Canada Research Chair and is a professor in the Indigenous Governance Programs and the Department of Political Science at the University of Victoria.

He is the author of two books, _Heeding the Voices of Our Ancestors: Kahnawake Mohawk Politics and the Rise of Native Nationalism _(Oxford University Press, Canada, 1999), and _Peace, Power, Righteousness: An Essay on Indigenous Ethics_, (Oxford University Press, Canada, 1999).

The event is sponsored by the Chicano/Latino Research Center; the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community; and the Merrill Provost's Office. A reception will follow the talk.  
top

One-day class teaches the basic skills to survive in nature

The Recreation Department is offering a class on survival skills on Sunday, April 25, taught by [UCSC Wilderness Orientation][6] instructor Elliott Parsons. Participants will learn to build shelters, locate and purify water, gather and sample some basic survival foods, learn some of the basics of survival hunting, and cover any number of other skills as time allows (cordage making, stalking, camouflage, etc.) Participants should bring lunch, water, and a pocket knife and wear long sleeves and pants. The class is from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and costs $25. Meet at the Recreation Office, East Field House. Sign up in advance at (831) 459-2806 or for more information, visit the [Recreation Department][7] web site.  
top

College Prep Online offers new programs for students, teachers

UC College Prep Online (UCCP) has announced two new options for high school students and a summer institute for teachers.   

UCCP's free online test prep courses for the SAT, ACT, and GRE are being expanded to include Spanish-language SAT preparation. "Offering California students the opportunity to access Spanish-language tutorials is a natural extension of our effort to make high-quality test preparation materials available to students of all different backgrounds," said Francisco Hernandez, executive director of the UCCP and UCSC vice chancellor of Student Affairs.   

High school students may also participate in a new summer school academy this year, offered through the UCCP California Virtual High School branch. The program will allow students to take sophisticated online advanced placement and honors courses, as well as utilize the Virtual High School's general courses.   
Additional information on both programs is available at the [ California Virtual High School][8] and [UC Gateways][9] web sites.   

Another summer program, the [Online Teaching and Learning Institute][10]: Building a Culture of Technology for Teaching and Learning in K-12, will be offered for teachers from July 21 to 23. The institute, at UCSC, offers affordable and practical training for educators interested in the effective use of technology among students. For more information, e-mail [guinea@uccp.org][11].  
top

Preparation work under way for Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Soil preparation work for the new Humanities and Social Sciences Building at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives is continuing. The $29 million project will provide offices, classrooms, and research space for the Divisions of Humanities and Social Sciences.  
[ Construction update story][12]  
[ ][13]top   

[Return to Front Page][14]

[1]: http://library.ucsc.edu/science/synergy
[2]: mailto:soehner@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://www.pacificmasters.org/index.shtml
[4]: http://www.pacificmasters.org/comp/results.shtml
[5]: http://web.uvic.ca/igov/people/faculty/alfred_gerald.html
[6]: http://studentaffairs.ucsc.edu/opers/wo/
[7]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/rec
[8]: http://www.cavhs.org
[9]: http://www.ucgateways.org
[10]: http://www.uccp.org/institute
[11]: mailto:guinea@uccp.org
[12]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[13]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[14]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-19/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
