---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2525
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>'s proposal to extend unemployment insurance received a nice endorsement in a lengthy <i>Atlantic Monthly</i> article. She was also quoted in <i>Salon.com</i> on the topic of extending trade-related job-loss benefits to white-collar workers.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> featured several quotes by assistant professor of film and digital media <b>L.S. Kim,</b> plus her photo, in a story about the cultural impact of HBO's television series <i>Sex and the City.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Fellow economist <b>Mike Dooley</b> was featured in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> column about the decline of the U.S. dollar and why it matters.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Daily Iowan</i> noted an upcoming lecture by American studies professor <b>George Lipsitz</b> about the 50th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court case, Brown v. the Board of Education of Topeka. In addition, Lipsitz and history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> were mentioned in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a UCSC event to discuss the death penalty.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Roland Tharp</b> of the Center for Research on Education, Diversity, and Excellence was quoted in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about challenges educators face in school districts that are becoming racially and ethnically diverse.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Orange County Register</i> featured the views of sociology instructor <b>Mike Males</b> in a recent article about teens and the gap between the reality and how they are portrayed in mainstream media.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> picked up on work by <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies on the challenges facing organic farming in California.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Post</i> tapped <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies for a story about the growth of water markets in the west and how they are moving more and more water from farms to thirsty cities, and the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> also quoted Haddad in a story about California's ongoing struggle to supply water to its growing population. Haddad was also quoted in a Greenwire story about UC's new Institute for Research in Climate Change and its Societal Impacts, which will pair scientists who focus on health care, water resources and other areas with climatologists to learn what the real-world impacts of climate change might be.
</p>
<p>
  In psychology, <b>Jean Fox Tree</b> was featured in a KCBS Radio broadcast about her work on speech and comprehension.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> and <b>Tony LoPresti</b> of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community coauthored an opinion piece for the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the World Social Forum, a gathering of 100,000 international activists to discuss social, political, and economic issues.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> article about the significance of the discovery in Niger of a Stone Age burial and settlement site tentatively dated at 5,000 years old.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-09/news.html "Permalink to news")
