---
layout: post
title: "UCSC Festival of Contemporary Music set for month of April"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/festival.04-04-5.240.jpg
    - caption: 
---

By Sabrina Eastwood  

The UCSC Music Department will explore the widely diverse world of contemporary music this month with the annual April in Santa Cruz Festival of Contemporary Music to be held in the Music Center Recital Hall.  

Festival director David Evan Jones, professor of music at UCSC, has invited artists from the Bay Area and beyond who will perform music from the old guard of new music--with works by Stockhausen, Cage, and Harrison--as well as cutting-edge new works by living composers.  

The festival features four concerts showcasing works by distinguished American and international composers, including members of the faculty of the UCSC Music Department (David Evan Jones, Ben Carson, Jacques Desjardins, Paul Nauert, Hi Kyung Kim, David Cope, and Peter Elsea). This year's festival will feature the premiere of _Ocean/Shore 2,_ a commissioned work by Korean composer Hyo-shin Na.  

Among the myriad artists performing in the monthlong festival are student musicians in UCSC's dynamic Percussion Ensemble, directed by acclaimed Bay Area teacher and musician William Winant; UCSC assistant professor of music Ben Carson; Santa Cruz's New Music Works Ensemble (featuring special appearances by choreographer and performer Tandy Beal and the work of internationally known nature photographer Kennan Ward); the San Francisco-based ensemble Earplay; internationally recognized pianist Teresa McCollough; Atlanta-based percussionist Peggy Benkeser; and percussionist Thomas Burritt of the University of Texas at Austin.  

April in Santa Cruz 2004 presents:  

**April 10 (Saturday) 7:30 p.m.  
New Chamber Music and UCSC Percussion Ensemble**  

The festival opens with a program featuring faculty and guest artists performing solo and chamber works, including an opera excerpt, by UCSC composers David Evan Jones, Ben Carson, and Jacques Desjardins. The UCSC Percussion Ensemble, directed by William Winant, performs _Refrain_ (1961) by Karlheinz Stockhausen and the first two sections of _Drumming_ (1971) by Steve Reich, featuring tuned bongo drums, marimbas, and voices.  

**April 17 (Saturday) 8 p.m   
New Music Works: Endangered**  
**Phil Collins, director**  
A ritual mingling of music, dance, spoken word, and projected imagery in honor of Earth's imperiled species of flora and fauna. Images by wildlife photographer Kennan Ward and choreography, dancing, and recitations by Tandy Beal. Works by John Cage, Lou Harrison, Phil Collins, David Cope, Peter Elsea, and Frederic Rzewski.  

**April 23 (Friday) 7:30 p.m.  
Earplay: Outside Korea**  
This innovative San Francisco-based ensemble performs _At the Edge of the Ocean_ by UCSC's Hi Kyung Kim, _Song in the Dusk I_ for clarinet by Geonyong Lee, and the premiere of _Ocean/Shore 2,_ a commissioned work by Korean composer Hyo-shin Na. Artists include Tod Brody, Peter Josheff, Terrie Baune, Kurt Rohde, Thalia Moore, Victor Avdienko, Daniel Kennedy, and Mary Chun.  

**April 24 (Saturday) 7:30 p.m.  
Music for Hammers and Sticks: New Music for Piano and Percussion  
**Featuring Teresa McCollough, piano, and Peggy Benkeser and Tom Burritt, percussion.  
Works by Charles Griffin, Paul Nauert, Belinda Reynolds, Alex Shapiro, Alvin Singleton, and Zhou Long.  

Tickets are $10 general, $8 seniors, $6 students, available at the   
UCSC Ticket Office: (831) 459-2159 <http://events.ucsc.edu/tickets>.  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-05/festival.html "Permalink to festival")
