---
layout: post
title: "Campus hosts international economics conference Oct. 15-16"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
---

Leading economists will gather for the Seventh Annual International Economics Conference at UCSC on October 15 and 16. Sponsored by the Santa Cruz Center for International Economics (SCCIE), the event will take place in the University Center.

The conference brings together international economists for the presentation of research papers and the lively exchange of ideas in an informal setting. The events begin at 9:30 a.m. on Friday, October 15, and end with a luncheon on October 16.

The keynote dinner address will be delivered October 15 by Guillermo Calvo, a Distinguished University Professor and the director of the Center for International Economics at the University of Maryland. Calvo, who is serving as chief economist at the Inter-American Development Bank, will discuss the challenges facing developing countries in the 21st century in an address entitled, "Learning from Crises: Emerging Markets at Crossroads." His presentation, which begins at 7:45 p.m., will be followed by a short panel discussion.

Other conference presenters include Doireann Fitzgerald of UCSC, Andrew Newman of University College London, Devashish Mitra of Syracuse University, Maurice Obstfeld of UC Berkeley, Helene Rey of Princeton, Carlos Vegh of UCLA, and Stephen Yeaple of the University of Pennsylvania. A full agenda is available online at [sccie@ucsc.edu][1].

This year's conference coincides with events celebrating the move of SCCIE and the Economics Department to the new Engineering 2 Building at UCSC. Conference attendees are encouraged to attend a wine reception that begins at 5 p.m. on Friday, October 15, in the new building. The gala dinner and keynote address will begin at 7 p.m. in the University Center.

This conference is part of a series of events in celebration of UCSC's 40th anniversary.

  
  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://sccie.ucsc.edu/webpages/AIEC_7Agenda.html
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-04/sccie.asp "Permalink to sccie")
