---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Economist **Lori Kletzer**'s proposal to offer wage insurance to displaced workers continues to get high-profile media coverage, most recently in the _Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, _and _National Journal._

A story in _New Scientist_ magazine about new findings that shed light on the first moments after the Big Bang included quotes from astronomer **Piero Madau.**

Assistant professor of film and digital media **L. S. Kim** was a featured guest on National Public Radio's _On Point_ program to discuss the cultural impact of HBO's television series _Sex and the City._

**Mike Males** of sociology was quoted in the _Las Vegas Review-Journal_ about new findings regarding adolescent brain development.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a news item about **Peggy Delaney,** professor of ocean sciences, who was elected a fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Delaney was also quoted in a story in the _Kansas City Star_ and other Knight-Ridder newspapers about plans for the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program.  

The _Allentown Morning Call_ covered a speech by history of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** at Pennsylvania's Lehigh University, where she called the U.S. prison system an outmoded form of punishment and urged that it be replaced by a multifaceted approach to rehabilitation.

**Donald Potts,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article in _Nature_ magazine about surprising new findings regarding the relationships among corals of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.

**Ronnie Gruhn** of politics discussed events in Haiti on the _Democracy Now_ radio program.  

Math professor **Richard Montgomery** collaborated with Stanford researchers on a study covered by National Public Radio and _Science News_\--a mathematical analysis suggesting that a coin toss is inherently biased.   

**Darrell Long,** professor of computer science, was quoted in news stories in the _Santa Fe New Mexican, Albuquerque Journal,_ and Associated Press news wires about problems with a supercomputer at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Long worked on an expert review of the Department of Energy's national supercomputing program.   

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _Metro Santa Cruz_ ran feature articles about music lecturer **Mesut Ozgen**'s multimedia project New Dimensions in Classical Guitar, describing his collaboration with assistant film and digital media professor **Gustavo Vazquez,** music lecturer **Peter Elsea,** and assistant theater arts professor **David Cuthbert.**

Arboretum director **Dan Harder** was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about flowering plum trees heralding the approach of spring in Santa Cruz.

**Erika Zavaleta** of environmental studies was profiled in the spring edition of _Nature Conservancy,_ as part of a feature on leading conservation scientists.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-08/news.html "Permalink to news")
