---
layout: post
title: "New computer virus prompts campus to block problematic attachments"
author: Louise Donahue
post_id: 2610
images:
---

<p>
  A new wave of virus-laden attachments headed to campus e-mail accounts has prompted UCSC to impose the computer equivalent of a blockade.
</p>
<p>
  Since last week, UCSC's Information Security Team has blocked all <i>.zip</i> attachments coming to campus e-mail accounts. That block was broadened Monday to include <i>.RAR</i> and <i>.SIT</i> attachments.
</p>
<p>
  E-mails with <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar or .sit</i> attachments are still being received, but with the attachment removed. The subject line of the e-mail is being modified with "{Virus?}" inserted before the original subject.
</p>
<p>
  In addition, the body of the e-mail then includes the following message: "Warning: This message has had one or more attachments removed. Warning: Information about the virus follows the original message content."<br>
</p>
<p>
  The move to block <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i>, and <i>.sit</i> attachments came after the team began seeing e-mails destined to campus users containing the new "Beagle" or "bagle" virus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "The action was taken to help protect our e-mail users' systems from infection until there was a better way to detect the viruses," said Steve Zenone, UCSC information security manager.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Once we determine that our e-mail antivirus software effectively detects and blocks Beagle, and new variants of Beagle, we will remove the global blocking of <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> and <i>.sit</i> attachments," said Zenone. "We may implement a temporary block again in the future if a similar threat arises--we continue to see new techniques used by virus writers to bypass antivirus."<br>
</p>
<p>
  Zenone noted that the security team continually monitors e-mail traffic to determine what impact these new worms/viruses might have and respond as needed.<br>
</p>
<p>
  He acknowledged that the blocking poses a problem for those using <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> and <i>.sit</i> attachments to share files and data. "It is a balancing act between security and convenience."<br>
</p>
<p>
  The blocking of <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> and <i>.sit</i> files manages the spread of the virus via e-mail passing through the campus mail servers, the primary method of propagation used by the Beagle virus. The threats come packaged as an e-mail with an attachment containing a randomly named <i>.exe</i> file inside a <i>.zip</i> , <i>.rar,</i> or <i>.sit</i> file.
</p>
<p>
  The embedded <i>.exe</i> file is password-protected with a random password. Up to this point, anti-virus software has been unable to crack and look inside these password-protected <i>.zip</i> files for analysis.<br>
  <br>
  Zenone has these suggestions for those who rely on <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> or <i>.sit</i> files:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Have the sender change the <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> or <i>.sit</i> extension to something else, such as <i>.txt</i>, that isn't being blocked. When you receive the attachment via e-mail change the extension's name back to <i>.zip</i>, .<i>rar</i> or <i>.sit</i> for your use.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * If you and the sender are comfortable using a different protocol/method for sharing the files, consider SFTP (or other methods) as opposed to SMTP.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Until we come up with a better way to handle the issues Beagle brings to the table, I believe it continues to be important that we follow the best practices of mitigation," Zenone said.
</p>
<p>
  These practices include:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Do not open or execute unexpected message attachments; mass-mailing worms can often originate from people the user knows.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Filter attachments not on a list of approved types at the e-mail gateway.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Apply the Outlook E-mail Security Update (Q262631) in order to block user access to certain attachment types. This update will also notify the user of applications attempting to access the Outlook address book.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Use of a firewall or Intrusion Detection System may block or detect back-door server communications with the remote client application.<br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-15/zip.html "Permalink to zip")
