---
layout: post
title: "Alumni returning for Banana Slug Spring Fair, April 16-18"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/bssf.04-03-29.250.jpg
    - caption: 
---

UCSC alumni will have a chance to reconnect with old friends, reflect on the past and future in a panel discussion, and even learn about galaxies far, far away during [Banana Slug Spring Fair,][1] April 16-18.

All alumni are invited to the annual reunion weekend.   

Several all-campus events are scheduled for Saturday, April 17. An Alumni Panel Discussion will feature graduates from the Class of '74 who represent a broad range of professions--from the arts to business to journalism.

The panelists will make connections between their education at UCSC and the work they do today. Featured speakers include Julie Packard (Crown '74, biology; founder and executive director of the Monterey Bay Aquarium); Katherine ("Katy") Roberts (Kresge '74, politics; editor of the _New York Times_ Week in Review); Don Wallace (Cowell '74, literature; award-winning journalist, novelist, and editor); and Nion McEvoy (Porter '74, literature; chairman and CEO of Chronicle Books. The 10:30 a.m. event will be in the University Center's Bhojwani Dining Room at College Nine and College Ten.  

Following that will be the All-Alumni Reunion Luncheon, at 11:30 a.m. at the   
Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room. Participants must [RSVP][2] by April 9; cost is $15. The classes of '69, '74, '79, '84, '89, '94, and '99 will receive special recognition. Memorabilia from every era will be on display, and alumni are urged to bring photos to share. Music from every UCSC era--including a UCSC "fight song"--will be featured. Alumni are seated together by class year and may invite a favorite faculty member to join them. Lunch will begin promptly at 11:30 a.m.   

At 1:30 p.m., Sandra Faber, University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, will deliver a multimedia Distinguished Faculty Lecture, "Exploring the Distant Universe with the World's Largest Telescope." Faber--renowned worldwide for her research on the formation and evolution of galaxies and the evolution of structure in the universe--has been involved with the Hubble Space Telescope and the W. M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii. The lecture will be in the UCenter's Bhojwani Dining Room.  

The crowded weekend schedule also includes a Thirty-Year Reunion Dinner for the Class of '74, a Class of '69 no-host dinner, a walking tour, book-signing, brunches, receptions, and other events. A complete schedule and online registration are available at [www.alumni.ucsc.edu][2].  

To RSVP by phone or for more information, call the UCSC Alumni Association at (800) 933-SLUG (7584), or (831) 459-2530.

[1]: http://alumni.ucsc.edu/reunions/index.html
[2]: http://www.ucsc.onlinecommunity.com/cgi-any/reg_event.dll/show?sitename=UCSC&template=event_main.htm&type=event_reg

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-29/bssf.html "Permalink to bssf")
