---
layout: post
title: "Seymour Center lecture series focuses on women in marine science"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/delaney.04-10-04.180.jpg
    - caption: "Margaret Delaney, interim campus provost and executive vice chancellor, wll be one of the panelists in a discussion on careers and aspirations. Photo by Tim Stephens"
---

The annual fall lecture series at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center this year highlights extraordinary women in marine science.

The series, "Women Who Turn the Tides: Setting New Benchmarks in Marine Science," includes presentations on three evenings in October, starting with a panel discussion on Wednesday, October 6\. The other lectures will take place on Tuesday, October 12, and Wednesday, October 20.

All three events start at 7 p.m. and will be held at the Seymour Center at Long Marine Laboratory. Admission is $8 for the general public and $6 for members of the Friends of Long Marine Lab. Information and tickets are available from the Seymour Center at (831) 459-3800.

**Wednesday, October 6, 7 to 9 p.m.  
Women in Marine Science: Discussing Careers and Inspirations**

Six remarkable panelists, all accomplished marine scientists from regional institutions, share their insights on careers in science, work/life choices, and the challenges in their chosen fields. Panelists include Margaret Delaney of UCSC, Margaret Bradbury of San Francisco State University and Moss Landing Marine Laboratories, Vida Kenk of San Jose State University, Marcia McNutt of the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute, Mary Silver of UCSC, and Lisa White of San Francisco State University.

**Tuesday, October 12, 7 to 8:30 p.m.**  
**Swimming with Giants: Using Electronic Tags to Follow Open-Ocean Predators in the Sea**  
Barbara Block, Stanford University, Hopkins Marine Station

MacArthur Foundation Fellow Barbara Block shares discoveries gleaned from the frontiers of marine science. Using satellite tags, Block follows the journeys of tunas, whales, sharks, seals, sea turtles, and seabirds as they travel the Pacific Ocean.

**Wednesday, October 20, 7 to 9 p.m. (two lectures)**  
**Eyes on the Ocean  
Judith Connor, Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute**

Connor, director of information and technology dissemination at MBARI, offers great visuals of the sea and explores how scientists interpret these as data.

**Ground Water and Coastal Health**  
Adina Paytan, Stanford University

Coastal systems, such as wetlands and coral reefs, represent the most dramatically altered ecosystems on the globe. Paytan shares her discoveries about the forces that alter these regions forever.

  

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-04/seymour.asp "Permalink to seymour")
