---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2826
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Christina Ravelo,</b> associate professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in news stories about her research on a major climate transition that took place about 2 million years ago. Stories from UPI and Scripps Howard News Service ran in the <i>Washington Post</i> and other newspapers, as well as online news sites <i>Environment News, Innovations Report,</i> and <i>Science Daily.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Professor Emeritus <b>Barry McLaughlin</b> of psychology was quoted in a story in Tokyo's <i>Daily Yomiuri</i> about the way young children learn languages.
</p>
<p>
  In an article about rising oil prices, <i>Investors Chronicle</i> cited research by economist <b>Menzie Chinn</b> on the impact oil price hikes have on inflation in the United Kingdom.
</p>
<p>
  Research by <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, postdoctoral researcher <b>Gill Bejerano,</b> and others on ultra-conserved elements in the human genome continued to generate coverage, with stories appearing in <i>Genetics and Environmental Law Weekly, Law and Health Weekly, Obesity, Fitness and Wellness Week, Biotech Law Weekly, Genomics and Genetics Weekly, Health Business Week, Medicine and Law Weekly, Genetics and Environmental Business Week, Biotech Week,</i> and <i>Health and Medicine Week.</i> In addition, Haussler and Bejerano are scheduled to tape an interview with <i>ScienCentral News,</i> which produces science news stories for TV newscasts on ABC and NBC local affiliates nationwide.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press tapped sociologist <b>Mike Males</b> for comment on youth curfews.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Theodore Sarbin,</b> professor emeritus of psychology, was the subject of a flattering profile in the <i>Monterey County Herald.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Guardian</i> contacted research professor <b>Bill Domhoff</b> of psychology to interview him about his work studying dreams.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> discussed UCSC's Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center in a story marking 10 years of defense conversion efforts by the Fort Ord Reuse Authority. MBEST director <b>Lora Lee Martin</b> was quoted in a follow-up story focusing on the center's development (<a href="pubs.html">related story</a>).
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> interviewed career adviser <b>April Goral</b> about the job-hunting guidance counselors offer students who major in the liberal arts.
</p>
<p>
  National Public Radio interviewed economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> for a piece on job loss and entrepreneurship.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program, discussing the U.S. occupation of Iraq.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Dan Wirls</b> fielded a call from the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a proposal to lower the voting age in California.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> wrote up psychology lecturer <b>Veronica Tonay</b>'s new book on dream interpretation.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-31/news.html "Permalink to news")
