---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/unex_fall_cover.150.jpg
    - caption: "UNEX's bronze-medal- winning catalog cover"
  -
    - file: ../art/farm_raised_beds.220.jpg
    - caption: "Raised bed gardens at the UCSC Farm Copyright 1998 Becky Lynch"
---

News Briefs

Extension wins awards for brochure covers

The [University Continuing Education Association][1] (UCEA) has awarded [UC Extension, Santa Cruz][2], two national awards: a silver award for Extension's Business and Management brochure series cover and a bronze award for the main catalog. Extension competes in the 25,000 students category against NYU, UCLA, Penn State, and Harvard, among others.

Named on the silver award are Extension's Joan Boffa-Dentone, art director, and Elise Huffman, senior artist; named on the bronze award are Extension's Mary Brooks, marketing director; Joan Boffa-Dentone; Sue Chavez, artist; Elise Huffman; and Robert deFreitas, editor. The awards will be presented at the upcoming UCEA annual conference in San Antonio, Texas.  
top

Volunteers needed at the Farm & Garden  

Do you enjoy gardening, learning about food and farming issues, and sharing your enthusiasm and knowledge with others? If the answer is "yes," then consider becoming a volunteer docent at the 25-acre organic farm and 3-acre Alan Chadwick Garden.  

A docent training will take place on six Tuesday afternoons from 4 to 7 p.m., beginning April 6 and ending May 11, at the Farm's Louise Cain Gatehouse. The first session will include a no-obligation orientation for those who want to know more about the opportunities available to docents.  

During the training sessions, participants will learn about organic farming and gardening practices, issues in sustainable agriculture, and the research that takes place at the Farm. Docents will also have the chance to do hands-on work in the Farm & Garden's greenhouses, gardens, and fields. After completing the training, docents are asked to lead one to two tours a month and will be encouraged to take part in enrichment meetings on such topics as bee keeping, crop planning, birds of the Farm, and pest control.   

A $30 fee covers the cost of materials, a docent manual, parking passes, and an organic cotton T-shirt. Docents will receive a yearlong membership to the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden, which includes discounts at plant sales, and reduced or free entry to Farm & Garden classes and events.  

For more details and to arrange for free parking during the training, please contact Joan Tannheimer at (831) 459-3240, or [jonitann@ucsc.edu][3]. The training is sponsored by the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems at UC Santa Cruz.  
top

Summer housing needed for visiting scholars

The Dickens Project is sponsoring a five-week seminar for college instructors, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Fifteen scholars from around the country will be selected tp participate and will need housing from approximately June 25 through July 30. Because of the the length of time, and the attractiveness of Santa Cruz as a vacation destination, some participant may choose to bring their partners or families for all or part of the time. If you are able to offer accommodations during this period, call (831) 459-2103 or send e-mail to [dpj@ucsc.edu][4].  
top

UCSC staff give presentation on ways to preserve your family history

University archivist Chuck Piotrowski and video expert Dave Kirk, who worked for 30 years as a media specialist at McHenry Library, will discuss methods for recording family history and preserving the artifacts in your home. Their presentation, titled "The Stuff of History: How to Become the Curator of Your Family History," will take place on Thursday, March 25, from 7 to 8:30 at the Main Branch of the Santa Cruz Library, 224 Church Street.  

Their presentation will include information on capturing oral histories, documenting family relations, and methods to safeguard and preserve home movies, papers, photographs, audio recordings, and digital files.

The talk is free and open to the public. Sponsored by [Friends of the UCSC Library][5] and [Friends of the Santa Cruz Public Libraries][6]. For more information, contact Liz Sandoval, (831) 459-5870, [lsand@ucsc.edu][7].  
top

UCSC student struck by shuttle bus   

UCSC student Brandon Ruiz was struck by a campus shuttle bus on Thursday, March 11, at approximately 1:50 p.m. The accident occurred on Heller Drive near Kresge College. Mr. Ruiz was taken to Stanford Medical Center in the Life Flight helicopter with a head laceration, broken leg and scrapes. He was released in time to return to class activities on Monday, March 15.  

The cause of the accident is being investigated. There also was a minor injury to a passenger in the shuttle, requiring treatment at the scene.  
top

After-school gardening program begins April 13  

The [Life Lab Science Program][8] is offering a new After-School Garden Days program. It will take place from 3:30 to 5 p.m. on five consecutive Tuesdays beginning April 13.  

Children ages 7 to 11 will work alongside garden staff, tending to the hens and honey bees, sowing spring seeds, and cooking in the garden kitchen. The cost is $20 per class or $85 for the series (Members of Life Lab pay $75).  
  
For more information, contact John Fisher at (831) 459-4035 or [gardencoordinator@lifelab.org][9].  
top   

Communications Building work nearing completion

Work is nearly complete for interior alterations in the Communications Building to accommodate the expanded needs of the Film and Digital Media and Information Technology Services departments, and people are moving into the facility. The new Communications Building will be dedicated during Banana Slug Spring Fair on April 17.[ Construction update story][10]  
[ ][11]top   

[Return to Front Page][12]

[1]: http://www.ucea.edu/
[2]: http://www.ucsc-extension.edu/main/index.html
[3]: mailto:jonitann@ucsc.edu
[4]: mailto:dpj@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://library.ucsc.edu/friends/
[6]: http://www.fscpl.org/
[7]: mailto:lsand@ucsc.edu
[8]: http://www.lifelab.org
[9]: mailto:gardencoordinator@lifelab.org
[10]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[11]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[12]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-22/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
