---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2781
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> has been in demand regarding the prison abuse scandal in Iraq. The <i>New York Times</i> was the first to quote Haney in a story about the famous 1971 Stanford Prison Experiment, in which students posing as prison guards abused students "inmates," which triggered calls from CNN, NBC's <i>Dateline,</i> the <i>Baltimore Sun,</i> MSNBC, and other news outlets.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> ran stories about <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, who won the 2003 Allen Newell Award.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Newsday</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> in an article about teaching assistants rallying for better wages and health care at Stony Brook University, where Davis spent a month as a distinguished visiting professor.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Results of sociologist <b>Craig Reinarman</b>'s study of marijuana use in San Francisco and Amsterdam received front-page coverage in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> as well as stories in the <i>Oakland Tribune,</i> on Bay City News, and on KSBW-TV.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> professor of Earth sciences, was featured in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about her research on the implications of climate change for California.<br>
</p>
<p>
  In an <i>Arizona Republic</i> article about outsourcing, economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> discussed the wage losses experienced by people who've lost jobs in the manufacturing sector and found reemployment in different industries.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>Nicole Paiement</b> was featured in an <i>Idaho Statesman</i> article about her role as a mentor to a former UCSC student who is now a professor of music at Boise State University.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Arboretum director <b>Dan Harder</b> was quoted in a story in the <i>Salinas Californian</i> about the Arboretum's collections of exotic plants.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Implement &amp; Tractor</i> cited the new book, <i>Agrarian Dreams: The Paradox of Organic Farming in California,</i> by <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Watsonville</i> <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> ran an article about the new 2004 lineup for Shakespeare Santa Cruz and the return of artistic director <b>Paul Whitworth.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about a major grant to support engineering students at UCSC and community colleges. Quoted in the story were <b>Carrol Moran,</b> director of the Educational Partnership Center, <b>Steve Kang,</b> dean of engineering, and <b>Ed Landesman,</b> professor emeritus of mathematics.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> noted that music professor and department chair <b>Anatole Leikin</b> was a judge at the Carmel Music Society's 28th Annual Competition.<br>
  <br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-10/news.html "Permalink to news")
