---
layout: post
title: "Annual Irwin Scholars exhibition at Sesnon Art Gallery begins May 19"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/thistles_anyone.150.jpg
    - caption: 
---

Fifteen students have been selected to receive the William Hyde Irwin and Susan Benteen Irwin Scholarships, given annually to outstanding young artists at UCSC.  

The students' work will be exhibited on campus at the Mary Porter Sesnon Art Gallery from May 19 through June 12. An opening reception is scheduled for Wednesday, May 19, from 5 to 7 p.m. and will include an awards ceremony. The exhibition and reception are both free and open to the public.  

The Irwin Scholarship Fund was established in 1986 and has grown to over $700,000, generating 15 annual merit scholarships. "These scholarships are recognition given by the faculty to the top 5 percent of the program," noted Norman Locks, chair of the Art Department. The Sesnon Art Gallery's annual exhibition of Irwin Scholars features painting, photography, printmaking, performance, sculpture, installation, and mixed media.   

Recipients in 2004 are: Matthew Christenson, Jessica Dunn, Andrew Hahn, Andrea Kaplan, Mary Kitaji, Aaron Koblin, Ryan Linke, Brigid McCabe, Laura Newman, Ryan Post, Emily Quist, Morag Sewell, Roy Tenenbaum, Aries Tjhin, and Tamara Zibners.  

Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday, from noon to 5 p.m. Parking is free on weekends. For more information, call Leslie Fellows at (831) 459-5667 or go to the [Sesnon Gallery][1] web site.  

[1]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/sesnon

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-17/irwin.html "Permalink to irwin")
