---
layout: post
title: "UC President Dynes names search committee for new UCSC chancellor"
author: Paul Schwartz
          UC Office of the President
post_id: 2756
images:
---

<p>
  University of California President Robert C. Dynes has named a 15-member committee to advise him in the search for the next chancellor of the UCSC campus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  On April 1, M.R.C. Greenwood, former chancellor at UCSC became the university's provost and senior vice president for academic affairs at the Office of the President. Currently, Martin Chemers is acting chancellor for the Santa Cruz campus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The committee members will be:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Susan Gillman, professor of literature, UCSC;<br>
  * Lawrence Pitts, chair, Universitywide Academic Senate;<br>
  * Stephen Thorsett, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, UCSC;<br>
  * Eugene Switkes, professor of chemistry, UCSC;<br>
  * Jodie Holt, professor and department chair, botany and plant sciences, UC Riverside;<br>
  * Odessa Johnson, dean emerita, Modesto Junior College and a UC Regent;<br>
  * Joanne Kozberg, former Secretary of the California State and Consumer Services Agency and a UC Regent;<br>
  * George Marcus, founder and chairman of Marcus &amp; Millichap and a UC Regent;<br>
  * Peter Preuss, president, The Preuss Foundation Inc. and a UC Regent;<br>
  * David Lee, chairman, eOn Communications Corporation and a UC Regent;<br>
  * Mateo Reyes, undergraduate student, UCSC;<br>
  * Susanne Altermann, graduate student, UCSC;<br>
  * Kenneth A. Feingold, trustee, UCSC Foundation;<br>
  * Ken Doctor, councilor, UCSC Alumni Association;<br>
  *Ed Titus, Telecommunications manager, UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  Ex officio members of the selection committee include:<br>
</p>
<p>
  *Dynes, convener of the committee;<br>
  *John J. Moores, chairman of JMI Services Inc. in San Diego and chairman of the UC Board of Regents.
</p>
<p>
  Linda Morris Williams, UC Associate President, and Joseph Mullinix, UC Senior vice president, business and finance will serve as consultants to the committee.<br>
</p>
<p>
  President Dynes hopes to bring a recommendation on a candidate to the UC Board of Regents in early fall.<br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-03/search.html "Permalink to search")
