---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

**Craig Haney** of psychology has fielded numerous media inquiries, including calls from the Associated Press, _Los Angeles Times,_ and United Press International about the 20-month lockdown of Latino inmates at Folsom State Prison. Haney was also interviewed by the _Los Angeles Times_ about prison gangs and by a _New York Times Magazine_ writer about supermax prisons. Finally, a reporter for _New York_ magazine called to discuss how inmates cope with being in prison for life.

**Gerald Barnett,** director of the Office for Management of Intellectual Property, was the subject of a profile in the _Chronicle of Higher Education_. The story focused on Barnett's unconventional approach to technology transfer, and included quotes from vice chancellor for research **Robert Miller,** chemistry professor **Glenn Millhauser,** and history professor **Alan Christy**.

History of consciousness professor **Barbara Epstein** and Hebrew lecturer **Tammi Rossman-Benjamin** were quoted in the _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Contra Costa Times_ about the departure of Chancellor Greenwood.

Economist **Lori Kletzer** made the front page of the _Wall Street Journal_ in a story about the outsourcing of jobs. . . . Fellow economist **Mike Dooley** was featured in a _Financial Times_ column.

History of consciousness professor** Angela Davis** was profiled in Cleveland's _Call and Post._

**Renee Tajima-Pena** of community studies penned a column for the _San Jose Mercury News_ about her husband's quest to piece together his fragmented family, which she documented in the film _My Journey Home,_ which aired on PBS in early April.

The _New York Times_ quoted political scientist **Bob Meister** in a story about whether U.S. aid to Iraqi insurgents bred future terrorists.

**Erika Zavaleta** of environmental studies was quoted in articles in the Albuquerque newspapers about the economics of salt cedar eradication.

In community studies, research by **Julie Guthman** was discussed in_ Organics,_ a British trade journal aimed at a U. S. audience.  

**Robert Klevan,** music lecturer and new education director for the Monterey Jazz Festival, was quoted in a _Monterey County Herald_ article about the festival's 34th annual National High School Jazz Competition.  

American studies professor and department chair **Tricia Rose** was quoted in the _Kansas City Star_ about the influence of pop star Britney Spears.

**Janet Bryer** of the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Foods Systems was featured in _Monterey Herald_ coverage of efforts by Pajaro Valley farmers to reduce water runoff from agricultural lands.  

Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director **Paul Whitworth** was quoted in the _San Jose Mercury New_s about the new 2004 summer season lineup.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-19/news.html "Permalink to news")
