---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Jakarta's _Kompas,_ the top Indonesian newspaper, featured an in-depth interview with theater arts professor **Kathy Foley,** and the Bandung, Indonesia, papers _Pikiran Rakyat_ and _Metro_ had articles on her lecture-performance at the Sunaryo gallery in Bandung which shared aspects of her Fulbright supported research.  

An article in the _New York Times_ about dark energy and its implications for the fate of the universe included a quote from **Sandra Faber,** University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics.   

Professor of history **Bruce Levine** contributed a book review to the _Chicago Tribune_ about a historical scholar's new perspective on Abraham Lincoln.   

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about the new Department of Biomolecular Engineering, quoting acting chair **David Deamer,** professor of chemistry and biochemistry. The _San Jose Business Journal_ also reported on the new department.   

History professor **Dana Frank** was quoted in _AAA World_ magazine about the politics of "Buy American" campaigns.

Biologists **Janet Linthicum** and **Glenn Stewart** of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group were featured in a story about peregrine falcons in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel._  

**Dan Costa,** professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article in _The Scotsman_ and in _National Geographic News_ about his collaborative research project called Tagging of Pacific Pelagics, which aims to tag and track the movements of more than 20 different species of marine life.  

A _San Francisco Chronicle_ article about a new arts education program in Bay Area elementary schools described a classroom discussion of a photograph taken by assistant professor of art **Lewis Watts.**  

Writing Program lecturer **Tim Fitzmaurice** was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ article about the Santa Cruz City Council's decision to approve a new ride at the city's historic beach boardwalk.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-23/news.html "Permalink to news")
