---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4185
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> was quoted in a <i>Washington Post</i> article about the widening income gap and job insecurity caused by the movement of U.S. jobs overseas.
</p>
<p>
  Fellow economist and interim social sciences dean <b>Michael Hutchison</b> gave a talk about East Asian capital flows that was covered by the <i>Edmonton (Canada) Journal,</i> and he appeared on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation radio.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, and postdoctoral researcher <b>Gill Bejerano</b> were featured in a story in <i>Genome Technology</i> magazine about the "ultraconserved sequences" they discovered in the human, mouse, and rat genomes. <i>Genome Technology</i> also mentioned research on a nanopore device by <b>David Deamer,</b> professor and chair of biomolecular engineering, in a story about new DNA sequencing technologies.
</p>
<p>
  Former history of consciousness chair <b>Gary Lease</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about his recent appointment as interim dean of the humanities.
</p>
<p>
  Politics prof <b>Dan Wirls</b> was quoted by Reuters in a story about minorities who are running for U.S. Senate.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway's</b> testimony in the trial of Scott Peterson was widely reported by the media, including the <i>Associated Press,</i> the <i>Contra Costa Times,</i> and the <i>San Jose Mercury News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Planetary scientist <b>Erik Asphaug</b> was tapped to answer a question about craters on the moon for the "Strange But True" syndicated news column by Bill and Rich Sones, which runs in dozens of newspapers, including the <i>Deseret Morning News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Marcia Millman</b> was interviewed by the <i>Salinas Californian</i> for a story about her new book about sisters.
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press picked up the news about the USDA grant that will support agroecology researchers' work with Central Coast farmers, quoting environmental studies prof <b>Carol Shennan,</b> and the <i>Salinas Californian</i> ran a brief item about the project.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted associate professor of philosophy <b>Robert Goff</b> in a story about longtime <i>New Yorker</i> magazine staff writer and UCSC alumnus <b>Lawrence Weschler.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</b>
</p><br>
<form>

</form>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/09-27/news.asp "Permalink to news")
