---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2731
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> professor of Earth sciences, and graduate student <b>Jacob Sewall</b> were featured in news stories about their findings that the melting of Arctic sea ice may lead to reduced rain and snowfall in the American West. Stories appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Contra Costa Times, Monterey County Herald, Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Kansas City Star,</i> <i>Vancouver Sun,</i> and <i>New Scientist</i> magazine. Sloan was also interviewed on KSCO Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Education Week</i> recently ran two stories on UCSC's Center for Research on Education, Diversity, and Excellence. One focused on the career of CREDE director <b>Roland Tharp,</b> who has spent decades researching classroom strategies that address the needs of students who are most likely to be "left behind." The other article showed how the center's work is being put into action at Starlight Elementary School, in Watsonville, Calif.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Raymie Stata,</b> assistant professor of computer science, was featured in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about software he developed for managing e-mail (Bloomba from Stata Labs, a company Stata cofounded).
</p>
<p>
  In a story about the impact of outsourcing, the <i>Economic Times</i> cited a study by economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> that found that in the 1980s and 1990s, two-thirds of workers who lost jobs in manufacturing industries hit by overseas competition earned less on their next job.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Surfer</i> magazine ran a news story about <b>Terrie Williams,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, who took some time off from studying marine mammals to look at the physiology of surfing with her physiology classes. Williams recorded the heart-pounding effects of big-wave surfing by putting heart-rate monitors on local surfers, including alumna <b>Sarah Gerhardt,</b> while they rode the giant waves at Mavericks.
</p>
<p>
  In a lengthy analysis of the 9/11 commission that appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News,</i> <b>Dan Wirls</b> of politics said the commission needs to wrap up its work this summer with a report that goes beyond making merely symbolic recommendations.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Don Croll</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about springtime changes in Monterey Bay.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Wilkes,</b> director of the Science Communication Program, was featured in an article about science journalism in <i>Bridges,</i> a publication of the Austrian Office of Science and Technology.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and <b>Mark Carr,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, were quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about a report issued by the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy.
</p>
<p>
  Film and digital media professor and department chair <b>Chip Lord</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the renovation of the Communications Building, the new headquarters for the Film and Digital Media Department.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Barry Sinervo,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was interviewed by KSBW-TV about the Santa Cruz long-toed salamander, an endangered species discovered on the site of planned construction work at Aptos High School.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-26/news.html "Permalink to news")
