---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

Chancellor **M.R.C. Greenwood** participated in a roundtable discussion convened by the _San Jose Mercury News_ on the impact of California's budget woes on higher education; an edited transcript of the conversation ran in two parts in the _Mercury News_ in December.

Professor of Earth sciences **Gary Griggs** was quoted in a story in the _San Francisco Chronicle_ about erosion of the bluff at Pleasure Point and a proposed seawall recently rejected by the Coastal Commission.  

Psychologist **Jean Fox Tree**'s research on speech comprehension was featured in a story that appeared in the _New York Times_ and the _Chattanooga Times Free Press,_ among other publications. Fox Tree, and Herbert Clark at Stanford, are pioneers of cutting-edge investigations of the significance of speech "disfluencies," such as um and uh.

The _New York Times_ cited assistant dean of the arts **Keith Muscutt** in an article about Peru's past, noting his authorship of a book about the Chachapoya people, titled _Warriors of the Clouds_ and his excavation of mummies dating to 1100 from cliffside mausoleums on a remote Peruvian lake, documented by the History Channel.

An article in the _Los Angeles Times_ about the investigation of the crash of the space shuttle _Columbia_ included a brief section on the contributions of **Julian Christou,** a research specialist in the Center for Adaptive Optics, who applied advanced image enhancement techniques to a photo of the shuttle just before it broke up.  

The Associated Press tapped water expert **Brent Haddad** of environmental studies for a story about the emergence of water markets across western states.  

Associate professor of art history **Carolyn Dean** was quoted in a _Seattle Times_ article about the transition of Our Lady of Guadalupe from a sacred image in Mexico to a U.S. pop-culture icon.

The work of **Wentai Liu,** professor of electrical engineering, and others to develop a retinal prosthesis for restoring vision were the subject of stories in several trade publications, including _Mechanical Engineering, Medical Devices & Surgical Technology Week, Biotech Week,_ and _Health & Medicine Week._

Economist **Rob Fairlie** was interviewed by a reporter from CBS _Marketwatch.com_ for a story about trends in entrepreneurship among older workers.  

_New African_ magazine (UK) published a story about history of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** accepting the Honorary Citizen of Paris award on behalf of imprisoned former Black Panther, civil rights activist, and journalist Mumia Abu-Jamal.

**Susanne Jonas** of Latin American and Latino studies was interviewed by CNN International's _World News_ program about the Dec. 28 Guatemalan runoff election.

American studies professor** Tricia Rose** was quoted in a _Boston Globe_ article about the impact of pop culture on female fashion choices.

The _Daily News_ of Los Angeles covered a study by **Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies that found dumps are more likely to be located in poor neighborhoods than wealthy areas.  

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey County Herald_, and _Salinas Californian_ announced that music lecturer **Robert Klevan** has been tapped to be the new education director for the Monterey Jazz Festival.  

An Associated Press story on the $35 million gift from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation to the University of California and Caltech to build the most powerful telescope included mention of Lick Observatory director **Joe Miller**. KSBW-Channel 8 also covered the story.

The_ Albuquerque Journal_ quoted folksinger Rosalie Sorrels about the donation of her archives to UCSC's Special Collections.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/01-12/news.html "Permalink to news")
