---
layout: post
title: "150 attend UCCP's annual summer institute for online learning"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/bluelogo.gif
    - caption: 
---

More than 150 educators gathered at UC Santa Cruz recently for the annual online teaching and learning institute hosted by UC College Prep Online (UCCP).

The conference, "Building a Culture of Technology for Learning and Teaching in K-12," took place July 21-23, attracting participants from California, Washington, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Florida, Wyoming, Washington, D.C., and Canada.  

Jack O'Connell, California's state superintendent of public instruction, delivered the opening address via videoconference from Sacramento. Martin M. Chemers, acting chancellor of UCSC, greeted the group on Friday morning.  

Topics focused on the themes of collaboration, content and curricula, implementation of online courses, teaching and learning, and training and technology. Individual sessions and workshops covered such areas as, "Bridging the Digital Divide: Technology and Educational Outreach," "A School Without Walls: Riding the Wave of the Future," "Habits of Successful Online Learners--A Student Panel," "Supporting Online Students: UCCP's Cybermentor Program," "There Are a Lot of Online Lessons Out There--How Do You Decide What to Use?," and "Techniques for Appearing On-Camera."  

Keynote addresses were delivered by Joan S. Bissell, dean and professor in the College of Education and Integrative Studies at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona; Assemblymember John Laird, who represents portions of Santa Cruz, Monterey, and Santa Clara Counties; and Tim Stroud, executive director for the North American Council for Online Learning (NACOL).   

In addition, Lynda Goff, executive faculty assistant to the provost and senior vice president of academic affairs at the UC Office of the President (UCOP) and UCSC biology professor, delivered a welcome address on July 21, and Julius Zelmanowitz, vice provost of academic initiatives at UCOP, introduced O'Connell.   

For those who were unable to attend the institute in person, UCCP offered a first-ever "virtual institute" that included training on virtual classroom software, access to keynote addresses, spotlight speakers, and a combination of discussion sessions and workshops. Cosponsored by Elluminate, the virtual institute allowed 13 distance participants to interact in real time with presenters and participants at UCSC.  

Founded in 1999 by Francisco Hernandez, UCSC's vice chancellor for student affairs, UCCP was created in response to a state mandate to provide equity in access to rigorous curriculum. The mission of UCCP is to provide online college preparatory courses to high school students who otherwise would not have the opportunity to achieve eligibility for admission to UC campuses, the California State University system, and other top universities. Based at UC Santa Cruz, UCCP develops media-rich online courses and provides test-preparation and academic support to students and teachers from eligible schools.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-09/prep.html "Permalink to prep")
