---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2600
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  Awards and Honors
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead">Belanger elected Fellow of American Physical Society</span><br>
</p>
<p>
  David Belanger, professor of physics, has been elected a Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS), a major recognition of professional accomplishment from the leading organization of physicists. Belanger's research interests include phase transitions in magnetic systems. The citation from the APS recognizes Belanger for "investigations of critical behavior near phase transitions in pure, random, and frustrated systems, and for the development of novel optical, neutron scattering, and other techniques to measure such phenomena precisely."<br>
</p>
<p>
  The UCSC physics faculty now includes 16 APS Fellows (including emeriti and adjunct faculty). Professor of physics Frank (Bud) Bridges was elected in 2002. Each year, no more than one-half of one percent of the society's membership are recognized by their peers with this honor.
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  Magazine picks UCSC as one of the top colleges for Hispanics
</p>
<p>
  UCSC is ranked among the top 25 universities for Hispanic students by <a href="http://www.hispaniconline.com/magazine/"><i>Hispanic Magazine.com</i></a> in its 2004 survey, published in the March issue of the publication. The campus was ranked 19th in the nation in its first appearance on the list.
</p>
<p>
  The magazine looks at schools whose student populations are at least 8 percent Hispanic. The rankings are based on academic reputation as well as information about freshman retention rates, minority enrollments, and graduation rates for Hispanic students. Data was drawn from the colleges themselves, Hispanic scholarship organizations, and <i>U.S. News &amp; World Report</i>'s annual special edition of <i>America's Best Colleges.</i>
</p>
<p>
  University of California campuses on the list--in addition to UCSC--are UCLA, UC Berkeley, UC Santa Barbara, UC San Diego, and UC Davis. Stanford University is ranked No. 1 for the second year in a row.
</p>
<p>

</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-15/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
