---
layout: post
title: "Hiring process going online"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Beginning next March, "pinks"--the forms used to document candidates chosen for hire--will be a thing of the past.

With the implementation of a new [Recruitment Management System][1] next March, the entire hiring process will move from being paper-based to paperless. Applicants will be able to attach resumes, cover letters, and even scanned letters of reference to their electronic applications.

They will be able to store these "application packets" in the system for future use, and even save different versions for various recruitments. Once applicants have an account set up, they can revisit the system to check the status of their applications online.

Hiring managers will see an expedited hiring process. Using their passcode-protected user account, they will be able to initiate a requisition online, and then circulate it electronically to the next person for review, approval, addition of data, etc.

Search committee members will be able to review application materials online, reducing the need to make multiple copies of each application. Once a candidate has been selected, the hiring manager can complete the appropriate portion of the online form, and electronically route it for approval.

Staff Human Resources (SHR) personnel are expecting the Recruitment Management System to improve communication between applicants and hiring managers, decrease the time required to recruit and hire employees, and reduce the time and costs associated with processing paper-based employment application materials. In addition, the Recruitment Management System will greatly improve staff's ability to analyze recruitment and hiring activity, resulting in more targeted, cost-efficient outreach efforts.

"By streamlining the process and implementing the enabling technology," said Tom Vani, vice chancellor of Business and Administrative Services, "we create capacity within SHR to deliver a set of services that is both more comprehensive and focused."

Staff Human Resources staff are aware that a paperless system will be a challenge to some prospective employees.To ease the transition, several public workstations will be placed in their lobby for applicants who don't have access to a computer, and staff will be available to provide assistance to those who need it.

Willeen McQuitta, director of Staff Human Resources, said she is optimistic about the new process. "RMS will take us from a paper-intensive system to a paperless system and a streamlined process" she said. "This has been a long time coming and we are extremely excited."   

[1]: http://bas.ucsc.edu/btp/rms.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/11-29/hiring.asp "Permalink to hiring")
