---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2543
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Garth Illingworth</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> story about a pair of reports from an anonymous NASA engineer disputing the agency's official justification for canceling maintenance missions to the Hubble Space Telescope. Illingworth is a member of one of the Hubble camera teams and is on a committee that advises NASA on space science.
</p>
<p>
  Film and Digital Media Department chair and professor <b>Chip Lord</b> appeared on a KRON-TV Sunday morning news show in San Francisco to discuss a retrospective of the Ant Farm architecture collective at the Berkeley Art Museum.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Paul Ortiz</b> of community studies was interviewed by KAZU Radio about Kevin Cooper, the death row inmate whose execution was postponed to allow for further review.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Margaret Delaney,</b> professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in a story in the <i>Oregonian</i> about the importance of ocean research.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Jean Fox Tree</b> hosted a KCBS Radio reporter who came to campus to do a story about her work on speech comprehension.
</p>
<p>
  Glaciologist <b>Slawek Tulaczyk,</b> an assistant professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story in the <i>Mt. Shasta News</i> about the glaciers on Mt. Shasta, which are growing while Sierra Nevada glaciers shrink.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was recently interviewed by a reporter from the Dow Jones News Service, who was interested in learning about entrepreneurship among disadvantaged groups.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Linda Locatelli,</b> manager of the campus plant growth facilities, was featured in an article about orchids in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Mike Males</b> of sociology was quoted in an <i>Orange County Register</i> article about teens and how they're perceived by adults.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Roland Tharp</b> of the Center for Research on Education, Diversity, and Excellence was quoted in the <i>Star Tribune</i> of Minneapolis about the seamless introduction of Hmong culture into the school curriculum.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Art Pearl,</b> professor emeritus of education, was quoted in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> about the value of prison education programs.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-16/news.html "Permalink to news")
