---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/cart.180.jpg
    - caption: "The Farm & Garden market cart will be open Tuesdays and Fridays into fall."
  -
    - file: ../art/photo_sale.160.jpg
    - caption: "Photos by students (like this one by Morgan Peterson) and faculty will be on sale Friday."
  -
    - file: ../art/anzaldua_gloria.110.jpg
    - caption: "Gloria Anzaldua"
  -
    - file: ../art/lettuce-head_girls.180.jpg
    - caption: "Fun with food awaits families at the Life Lab Summer Fare. Photo: John Fisher"
---

News Briefs

Faculty and student Photo Print Sale June 4; Student Print Sale June 4-5   

The fourth annual photography print sale--held in conjunction with the Art Department's spring Open Studios--will take place on Friday, June 4, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Baskin Visual Arts Seminar Room (D-101).

The sale will feature a variety of photos, including color, digital, black-and-white, and alternative-process prints by UCSC students and faculty. Prices range from $5 to $100. The sale is free and open to the public. For more information, contact Katherine Quan at (831) 459-2282.

The 30th annual Student Print Sale will take place on Friday and Saturday, June 4 and 5, between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. at Baskin Visual Arts, Room G-101.

Hundreds of original prints will be for sale in a variety of media--including woodcut, lithography, etching, and digital printmaking. The sale offers a great opportunity to see the professional quality of the printmaking program and facilities at UCSC. Proceeds will benefit individual student artists. For more information, contact Veda Ozelle, (831) 459-3686 or go to the [Print Sale][1] web site.  
top

Workers' compensation topic of June 2 forum  

The next Executive Budget Committee forum, an update on workers' compensation, will be June 2, from 2 to 3 p.m. in Thimann Lecture Hall 3. Sponsored by the Staff Advisory Board, the forums are designed to keep staff members informed about budget-driven campus "transformation" projects. Additional information on the process is available online at [Budget Update][2] web site.   
top

Farm & Garden market cart opens June 1

It's easy to grab a bag of fresh organic salad mix or a bouquet of spring posies at the UCSC Farm & Garden market cart, which opens this year on Tuesday, June 1.   
Located at the main entrance to campus, the popular produce and flower stand brings the fresh organic bounty of the Farm & Garden to cooks and flower lovers Tuesday and Friday afternoons from noon until 6 p.m.   

The array of fresh organic fruits and vegetables grows as the season progresses, but early offerings include tender lettuces, sweet carrots, tasty beets, and chard. As summer progresses, watch for sweet corn, flavorful dry-farmed tomatoes, gourmet potatoes, an array of sweet and hot peppers, apples, basil and other herbs, and more.  

All proceeds benefit the UCSC Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems' apprenticeship program in ecological horticulture. For more information, call (831) 459-3240.  
top

Gathering to celebrate the life of Gloria Anzaldua

Gloria Anzaldua, a well-known writer and Santa Cruz resident, will be remembered by friends, faculty, staff, students, and community members on Friday, June 4, at the Merrill College Cultural Center (formerly Merrill Dining Hall) from 7 to 9 p.m. The program, Speaking Tongues/ Lenguas Hablando: Community Gathering Para Gloria, will include writers, poets, and musicians.  

Ms. Anzaldua passed away on May 15 from diabetes-related complications at the age of 61. She was the author of _Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza_ (1987), coeditor of _This Bridge Called My Back: Writings by Radical Women of Color_ (1981) and _Making Faces, Making Soul/Haciendo Caras: Creative and Critical Perspectives by Feminists of Color_ (1990), as well as the children's book _Friends from the Other Side/Amigos del Otro Lado_ (1993).

Participants are invited to bring a token for her altar and a handheld pillar candle for the event. The event is cosponsored by Women's Studies; Chicano Latino Resource Center; Merrill, Cowell, and Stevenson Colleges; Colleges Nine and Ten; EEO/AA; Women's Center; ARC/DRC/STARS, among others.  
top

Wellness Center offering limited hours during East Field House closure and summer activity classes and seminars

All facilities at the East Field House, with the exception of the Wellness Center, will be closed for locker clearing and maintenance from Friday, June 11, through Sunday, June 20. Lockers should be cleared out and checked-out items turned in, i.e. towel, lock, or gym clothing, by Thursday, June 10, to avoid being assessed a late fee. The administrative office will be open during this closure to renew wellness cards.

The [Wellness Center][3] hours of operation are as follows:

* **Finals week:** Open June 7-10, Monday-Thursday, 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Closed Friday through Sunday, June 11-13.
* **Quarter break:** June 14-18, Monday-Friday, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Closed Saturday and Sunday, June 19-20.
* **Summer hours:** beginning Monday, June 21, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 6:30 a.m.-8 p.m.; Tuesday and Thursday, 7 a.m.-8 p.m.; and Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.

The [Wellness Center][3] is offering a variety of activity classes, health discussion series, and one-day seminars this summer. [Summer class listings][4] include Stretching Basics, Cardio and Weights, Pilates, Lifetime Fitness and Health, and Beating Stress, Anxiety, and Depression the Natural Way. Register before June 7, and you will receive a 10 percent reduction in the cost of the class; register with a friend or group, and all receive the discount. For more information or to register for classes, contact Ryan Andrews at (831) 459-3970 or [randrews@ucsc.edu][5].  
top

'Summer Fare' at Life Lab's garden classroom June 5

The third annual "Summer Fare in the Life Lab Classroom Garden" will take place Saturday, June 5, from 1 to 4 p.m. at the UCSC Farm. This fun, family-oriented event will include tasting and cooking demos with local chefs and farmers, children's gardening activities, and live music. Admission is $5; children 12 and under are free.   

Activities include a strawberry and edible flower tasting, grinding corn and making fresh tortillas, making fresh butter, baking focaccia in a wood-fired oven, and a sustainable seafood BBQ.

Children's activities include sowing seeds to take home, making fresh-squeezed lemonade, tasting honey, and playing "My Local Tomato," a game that teaches the importance of buying local. There will also be face painting, live music by ZunZun, and raffles of donated produce. More information is available online at [www.lifelab.org][6] or call (831) 459-2001.  
top

UC Regents approve new tax-advantaged retirement savings plan for faculty and staff

At their May 19-20 meeting, the UC Regents approved a new voluntary savings plan that effectively doubles the amount of money UC faculty and staff may put into tax-advantaged retirement savings. In addition to the Tax-Deferred 403(b) Plan UC currently offers, this new plan will give employees even greater opportunities to save for retirement and enjoy the valuable benefits of tax-deferred savings.

The new plan, defined as a 457(b) plan by the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), currently has the same contribution limits as the 403(b) Plan; however, the contribution limits set by the IRC for each plan do not offset one another. For example, an employee who already contributes the maximum amount permitted to UC's 403(b) Plan ($13,000 in 2004) could also put up to $13,000 annually in tax-deferred savings in the new 457(b) plan. Employees will have the choice to enroll in either or both plans. See full text of [press release.][7]  
top

Summer swimming lessons for children and adults

Swimming instruction for beginners through swimmers is offered at the 50-meter pool for children of students, staff, faculty, and valid recreation-card holders. There are four two-week sessions from June 21 to August 13. The cost is $35 per child per session. Sign-up at the OPERS office Monday-Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Adult lessons are offered at the 50-meter pool to students, staff, faculty, and valid recreation-card holders. Classes are Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 1:15 p.m. in two four-week sessions (June 22-July 15 and July 20 - August 12). The cost is $30 per adult.

Private lessons are also available for adults and children ages 3 and up. Times vary and can be arranged throughout the day and weekends. The cost is $10 per 30-minute session or five sessions for $45. Call (831) 459-3983.  
top

'Old Hollywood' theme for June 3 University Center event

Big Band music, dancing, and the presentation of Oscars will evoke the feeling of Old Hollywood at the [University Center][8]'s Alive after Five gathering on June 3 from 5 to 7:30 p.m. Listen to the live sounds of Full Swing, a five-piece band specializing in the standards of great American songwriters like Cole Porter, Jerome Kern, and the Gershwins and legendary artists like Frank Sinatra, Tony Bennett, Glenn Miller, and Duke Ellington. Dancing is encouraged. And what Hollywood event would be complete without the giving away of Oscars? The University Center will present the first 50 people to arrive at 5 p.m. with a chocolate Oscar. For more information, call the University Center at (831) 459-4321.  
top   

Recreation Office offers Wilderness First Responder course

The Wilderness First Responder course will be given by the Wilderness Medicine Institute June 11-20 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the East Field House. The course is designed to provide outdoor leaders, guides, rangers, and travelers with the knowledge needed to deal with medical emergencies in remote settings. The 80-hour curriculum includes wound management and infection, realigning fractures and dislocations, improvised splinting techniques, patient monitoring and long-term management problems, environmental emergencies, plus advice on drug therapies. Certifications upon successful completion. Cost is $425/UCSC students, $495/general. Register by calling (831) 459-2806.   
top  

Celebrate graduation at the University Center

Graduating? Parents in town? Need a classy yet festive place to eat, drink, and be merry? Want to avoid the hassle of going off campus? The [University Center][9] is extending its hours and offerings to serve grads and their families.

**Saturday, June 12**

* Buffet Brunch/Lunch, 10:30 a.m.-3 p.m.
* Patio and Lounge open 3-5 p.m., serving "Graduation 2004" specialty drinks, with selected wine and beer on special for $2.75; alumni wines by the glass
* Dinner, 5-8 p.m. Special four-course prix-fixe menu with vegan/vegetarian options. Child's menu also available.

**Sunday, June 13**

* Champagne Buffet Brunch/Lunch 10:30 a.m.-3 p.m. Call now for your reservation--spaces are filling up fast!  

For reservations, call (831) 459-4321. The University Center (directly above Colleges Nine and Ten Dining Commons) features a full-service restaurant, full bar, patio, and spectacular views of the redwoods.  
top  

Construction to begin this summer on Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Construction of the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building will begin this summer and continue through summer 2006.   
[ Construction update story][10]  
[ ][11]top  

[Return to Front Page][12]

[1]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/printsale/
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/budget_update/index.asp
[3]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/pages/index.html
[4]: http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/pages/specialevents.html
[5]: mailto:randrews@ucsc.edu
[6]: http://www.lifelab.org
[7]: http://atyourservice.ucop.edu/news/general/retirement_savings.html
[8]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu/events.html
[9]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu
[10]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[11]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[12]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-31/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
