---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4206
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Susan Schwartz</b>, professor of Earth sciences and director of the Keck Seismology Lab, answered reporters' questions about the magnitude 6 earthquake that struck near Parkfield on September 28. Schwartz was interviewed by National Public Radio and local television stations KION and KSBW. Professor of Earth sciences <b>Thorne Lay</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the quake.
</p>
<p>
  Politics prof <b>Dan Wirls</b> did postdebate analysis for the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> after the first Bush-Kerry face-off. Earlier, Wirls talked with Reuters about diversity in the U.S. Senate.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Contra Costa Times, Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and KION TV ran stories about <b>Claire Max</b>, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, who won the E. O. Lawrence Award in Physics.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway</b>'s testimony in the trial of Scott Peterson was covered in the <i>San Jose Mercury New</i>s and the <i>Contra Costa Times,</i> among other publications.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Sandra Faber</b> is featured in "Origins," a four-part miniseries for <i>Nova</i> on PBS. Faber was quoted in reviews of the series in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and on MSNBC.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Deseret Morning News</i> and the Associated Press covered the news that the Davis School District in Utah is the latest to adopt a teacher mentoring program developed by the UCSC <b>New Teacher Center.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> noted that American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> would be the keynote speaker at a San Jose State University conference.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Steven Vogt</b> was profiled in a <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> article about his involvement in the search for new planets outside our solar system.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Times Colonist</i> in Victoria, British Columbia, covered economist <b>Michael Hutchison</b>'s recent lecture about East Asian capital flows at the University of Alberta.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, was quoted in an article about genomic research in <i>The Scientist</i> magazine. Fellow genome researcher <b>James Kent</b> was featured in an article in the <i>Deseret Morning News</i> about a study in which Kent collaborated with researchers at Utah's Huntsman Cancer Institute.
</p>
<p>
  The Mexican media, including <i>La Jornada, El Universal,</i> and Radio UNAM, covered a talk by <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies about the political rights of Latinos.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article about California sea otter populations in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> included quotes from <b>Jim Estes,</b> adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the endowed fellowship in plant ecology established by <b>Jean Langenheim,</b> professor emerita of biology.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> quoted marine scientist <b>Peter Miller</b> in a story about UCSC researchers working with the state health agency to test new technologies for monitoring harmful algal blooms along the California coast.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Theoretical physicist <b>Thomas Banks</b> was quoted in <i>Science News</i> in a story about black holes.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>

</form>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-04/news.asp "Permalink to news")
