---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/orlando_david.120.jpg
    - caption: "David Orlando"
  -
    - file: ../art/woosley_stan.bw.jpg
    - caption: "Stan Woosley"
---

Awards and Honors

David Orlando honored by French government  

David Orlando, a lecturer in French and chair of the Language Program, has just been awarded one of the French government's highest academic honors--the Palmes Academiques, for his lifelong work teaching French language and culture. The honor, which bestows the rank of Chevalier (knight), is given to those who have advanced the cause of French culture, education, and the arts.  

Three other UCSC professors have received the Palmes Academiques--Herve Le Mansec, lecturer in French and Consul Honoraire de France for San Jose and Silicon Valley, in 1993; Jonathan Beecher, professor of history, in 1998; and Miriam Ellis, lecturer in French, in 1999. Orlando will be presented with the medal later this year in a private ceremony.  
top

Phi Beta Kappa recognizes teaching excellence  

Daniel Palleros, a lecturer in chemistry and biochemistry, received a 2004 Teaching Excellence Award from the Phi Beta Kappa Northern California Association. Palleros was one of six distinguished teachers recognized at the association's annual awards dinner on May 2 at UC Berkeley.  
top

Woosley honored by physical and biological sciences  

Stan Woosley, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, has received the Outstanding Faculty Award for 2003-04 from the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences. The award was established in 1993 to recognize outstanding faculty members in the division. Woosley was honored for his distinguished research career, teaching excellence, and commitment to service.   

Woosley has served three times as chair of the Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics and is well known for his research on supernovae and gamma-ray bursts. He is a co-investigator on the _HETE-2_ satellite, launched in 2002 to study gamma-ray bursts, and is involved in planning NASA's other missions for gamma-ray astronomy. In 2001, Woosley was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.  
top

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-10/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
