---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/helm_karina_drawing.220.jpg
    - caption: "Illuminating Science, an exhibit of work by students in the Science Illustration Program, is on display through spring quarter at the Science & Engineering Library. Pictured above is artwork by graduate Karina Helm, 2002."
---

News Briefs

Science illustration demonstration and exhibit at Science Library  

Several students in the Science Illustration Program will be demonstrating drawing techniques and answering questions about the blending of art and science at the Science & Engineering Library on Tuesday, March 9, from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. The demonstration is being held in conjunction with an exhibit currently on view in the library. The exhibit, Illuminating Science, showcases work by students in the Science Illustration Program.

Beginning with the current application period and starting in fall 2004, the Science Illustration Program will be offered through UCSC Extension. Upper-division science illustration courses are offered during [Summer Session][1].   
For more information about science illustration, contact the [Science Communication Program][2] office by calling (831) 459-4475 or e-mailing [scicom@ucsc.edu][3].  
top

Administrative professionals reject union representation

On March 4, the Public Employees Relations Board released the results of the vote by UC administrative professionals on union representation. Employees voted against union representation by UPTE. The count of hospital staff was 181 for UPTE and 463 for no representation. The campus staff count was 2,637 for UPTE and 4,846 for no representation. The turnout for the election was approximately 70 percent.  
top

Send-off for Chancellor Greenwood planned for March 18

Faculty and staff are invited to a farewell reception for Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood on Thursday, March 18, from 4:30 to 7 p.m. at the University Center. This is an opportunity to thank Chancellor Greenwood and wish her well in her new position at UCOP. The event is being organized by Alison Galloway, chair of the Academic Senate, and Rachel Huff, chair of the Staff Advisory Board.  
top

University Center's March 'Alive after Five' event has Irish theme  

Join your colleagues for Celtic music, Irish dancing, and a bit of the green at the [University Center][4]'s "Alive after Five" event on March 11 from 5 to 7:30 p.m. There will be many special appetizers and drinks to choose from, and, as always, the popular trivia contest. No admission charge. For more information, contact the University Center manager at[ clarkj@ucsc.edu][5] or (831) 459-4321.  
top   

'Walk to Fitness' club getting started on campus

The campus Wellness Center is starting a walking club. Staff and faculty are invited to an informational meeting on Tuesday, March 9, from noon to 1 p.m. at the Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D. On the agenda are how to get started, what to wear, and motivational tips. For more information, contact Cindy Mori at (831) 459-5781 or [camori@ucsc.edu][6].  
top

Campus community members invited to take trip to China  

Faculty, students, staff, and alumni--as well as their partners and children over age 11--are invited to take a partially subsidized trip to China in July as "ambassadors of peace." The trip is sponsored by [Legends of China,][7] a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization, which focuses on positive relationships between the United States and China. The trip will include sightseeing as well as participation in the Silk Road to the Future ceremony at the Great Wall, where 500 Chinese students will join 500 U.S. students, staff, and faculty to celebrate world peace and the growing goodwill between the two nations. The application deadline is April 9, but a limited number from each UC campus are invited, and it is first-come, first-served.[ Application information][8]  

Information sessions on the trip will be held on Monday, March 8, at noon and 5:30 p.m., and on Wednesday, March 31, at 5 p.m., in Namaste Lounge at College Nine. For more information, call (831) 459-3149 or e-mail [dslater@ucsc.edu][9].   
top

John Dizikes to give talk on Italian opera

John Dizikes, professor emeritus of American studies, will give a talk to the Dante Alighieri Society of Santa Cruz on March 10 at 7:30 p.m. at the Vets Hall, 846 Front Street, in Santa Cruz. His presentation is titled "19th-Century Italian Opera: Oppressed People in the Homeland_._"

Dizikes is the author of _Opera in America: A Cultural History_ (Yale University Press, 1995), which won the 1993 National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism. He will talk about a major theme in Italian history and Italian opera: the aspiration of many Italians to create a homeland. Excerpts from operas by Rossini, Bellini, and Verdi will be presented.  

For more information, e-mail [dantesantacruz@sbcglobal.net][10] or call (831) 423-3900. The suggested donation for the lecture is $5.  
top

Communications Building work nearing completion

  
Work is nearly complete for interior alterations in the Communications Building to accommodate the expanded needs of the Film and Digital Media and Information Technology Services departments, and people are moving into the facility. The new Communications Building will be dedicated during Banana Slug Spring Fair on April 17.[ Construction update story][11]  
[ ][12]top   

[Return to Front Page][13]

[1]: http://summer.ucsc.edu
[2]: http://scicom.ucsc.edu/illus/
[3]: mailto:scicom@ucsc.edu
[4]: http://ucenter.ucsc.edu/events.html
[5]: mailto:clarkj@ucsc.edu
[6]: mcamori@ucsc.eduilto:
[7]: http://www.legendsofchina.com
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/legendsofchina
[9]: mailto:dslater@ucsc.edu
[10]: mailto:dantesantacruz@sbcglobal.net
[11]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[12]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[13]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-08/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
