---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

The _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Contra Costa Times_ ran stories about the falling silver levels in San Francisco Bay, quoting **Russell Flegal,** professor of environmental toxicology.__  

**Nancy Aebersold,** director of the Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC), was quoted in a _Chronicle of Higher Education_ article about helping dual-career couples find academic jobs.  

**Craig Haney** continues to field calls from reporters about the brutalizing atmosphere of prisons, most recently from _USA Today, People_ magazine, and the _International Herald Tribune._ He discussed the 1971 Stanford Prison Experiment and the abuse of Iraqi prisoners on _Dateline NBC_. Haney also was quoted by the _San Francisco Chronicle_ in a story about jury selection.   

**Terry Schalk,** adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in a story in the _Contra Costa Times_ about a Science and Technology Fair at a high school in Oakley. Schalk and others from the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics presented a tesla coil demonstration at the event.

Literature lecturer **Chuck Atkinson** and journalism lecturer **Conn Hallinan** were quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about state budget cuts.  
  
The _Sacramento Bee_ tapped **Ellen Moir** of the UCSC New Teacher Center to discuss the classroom management challenges that confound many new teachers.

Professor emeritus **Michael Soule** was mentioned in a story about species in crisis that appeared in the _Oregonian._** **

**Caroline Pomeroy,** a researcher at the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in an article in the _Good Times_ about wild salmon populations.  

_The Santa Cruz Sentinel_ noted that women's studies lecturer **Peggy Downes Baskin** will be a keynote speaker at a Santa Cruz Chamber of Commerce Women in Business luncheon.

The discovery of "ultra-conserved" elements in the human genome by UCSC researchers--including **David Haussler,** professor of biomolecular engineering, and postdoctoral researcher** Gill Bejerano**\--was reported in the _San Francisco Chronicle,_ U.P.I. wire service, and numerous online news sites, including _BBC News, Medical Science News, Bio-IT Bulletin, Innovations Report, Science Daily,_ and _Bio.com._

Sociologist **Craig Reinarman's** recent study about marijuana use was covered in several dailies in the East Bay, including the _Alameda Times-Star,_ the (Fremont) _Argus,_ the _Tri-Valley Herald,_ and the (Hayward) _Daily Review._

UCSC's decision to serve fair-trade coffee in campus dining halls was included in a recent _New York Times_ story about the Fair Trade food movement.   

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-17/news.html "Permalink to news")
