---
layout: post
title: "Indian Classical Music Series to feature innovative vocalist Shweta Jhaveri in May 2 concert"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/indian_concert.04-04-26.200.jpg
    - caption: 
---

The UCSC Music Department's 2003-04 Indian Classical Music Series will conclude on Sunday, May 2, with a concert featuring acclaimed Indian vocalist Shweta Jhaveri at 7:30 p.m. in the Music Center Recital Hall.   

Hailed as one of the most innovative Indian vocalists of the younger generation, Jhaveri performs the Indian vocal styles of Khyal, Tappa, Thumri, and Bhajan.

She has performed widely in India, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Bangladesh, and the Netherlands.

Jhaveri is the first female vocalist from the state of Gujarat, India, to perform nationally and internationally.  

Jhaveri grew up listening to the music of both the East and West, and began performing at the age of nine. Now in her 30s, she continues to perform, compose, and occasionally teach workshops around the world.

Musically, what sets this vocalist apart is her mesmerizing voice, soulful vocal expression, and remarkable spontaneity.  

Jhaveri will be accompanied by Sri Uttam Chakraborty on tabla. Uttam is currently an artist-in-residence at the Ali Akbar College of Music in San Rafael.  

The Indian Music Endowments were established at UCSC in 1998 to fund undergraduate and graduate instruction in the history and culture of Indian classical music. In 1999, the renowned master musician Ustad Ali Akbar Khan initiated concerts in Indian music at UCSC's Music Center Recital Hall, and since that time has taught Hindustani music each spring with his disciples. His eldest son, Aashish Khan, is teaching the course this year.  

The campus initiative in Indian music coordinates with other programs in South Asian arts and culture, guided by Dean of Arts Edward Houghton and a group of campus and community volunteers. For more information, contact Professor Linda Burman-Hall, director of Indian Music Endowments, at: [lbh@ucsc.edu][1].

For tickets to the concert by Shweta Jhaveri, call the UCSC Ticket Office at (831) 459-2159.

[1]: mailto:lbh@ucsc.edu

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-26/concert.html "Permalink to concert")
