---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

American studies professor and department chair **Tricia Rose** was quoted in a _San Francisco Chronicle_ article about efforts to involve the hip-hop generation in mainstream politics. The _Chronicle_ also quoted American studies professor **Judy Yung** in a piece about the Bay Area's Square and Circle Club, one of the oldest Chinese women's service organizations in the United States.

The _Chronicle of Higher Education_ ran a beautifully illustrated story about the **Science Illustration Program** and its transfer to UCSC Extension due to state budget cuts. Program coordinator **Ann Caudle** and several of this year's students were quoted in the story.  

_Slate_ magazine's recent article about the nation's on-again, off-again love affair with milk mentioned work by sociologist **Melanie DuPuis.**

The marine natural products research of **Phil Crews,** professor of chemistry, is included in an article about the search for medicines from the sea in the May issue of _Smithsonian_ magazine.   

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a piece about UCSC alum **Kent Nagano** choosing music professor and Arts Division dean **Edward Houghton**'s new transcription of a Renaissance mass by composer Johannes Ockeghem to open the 2004 Ojai Music Festival.

The _New York Times_ ran a story about the folded paper structures illustrating mathematical principles (now called "computational origami") that were created by the late **David Huffman,** who was a professor of computer science at UCSC. One expert in the field describes Huffman's work as "awesome." His daughter **Elise Huffman,** a senior graphic artist with UCSC Extension, is quoted in the story, as is **Michael Tanner,** professor emeritus and a former colleague of Huffman's at UCSC.

The _San Francisco Chronicle_ featured Alan Chadwick Garden manager **Orin Martin** in a story about the array of citrus that can be cultivated year-round by home gardeners.

The (Syracuse, N.Y.) _Post-Standard_ cited a study by sociologist **Mike Males** in its coverage of a teen curfew proposal, and Males penned an opinion piece for the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ that cited misconceptions about local rates of teen violence, suicide, and drug abuse.

**Peter Raimondi,** professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article about proposals for a desalination plant on Monterey Bay in _Metro Santa Cruz._ Raimondi has studied the potential impacts of a desalination plant on marine life.

The _Santa Cruz Metro_ praised the Music Department's growing opera program in a review that credited music lecturer **Brian Staufenbiel** and Professor **Nicole Paiement** with leading an inspiring production of Kurt Weill's_ Street Scene._

**Francisco Hernandez** was quoted in a _California Journal_ article about the impact of UC fee hikes on low-income students.

A recent "On the Bay" column in the _Watsonville Register-Pajaronian_ discussed research on blue whales by **Don Croll,** assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.

The (Massachusetts) _Sunday Telegram_ profiled organic farmer **Joe Lambro,** a graduate of the Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-28/news.html "Permalink to news")
