---
layout: post
title: "Chancellor Greenwood visits Korean education and arts institutions"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/mrc_korea.04-02-02.250.jpg
    - caption: 
---

and [Scott Rappaport][1]

UCSC strengthened its connections with Pacific Rim countries last month during a visit to Korea by Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood.

Accompanied by Steve Kang, dean of the Baskin School of Engineering, and Hi Kyung Kim, associate professor of music, Greenwood visited several universities and arts institutions and signed memoranda of understanding (MOUs) with two universities.  

"It was a very busy and very productive time," Greenwood said.  

The MOUs with Konkuk University and Yonsei University laid the groundwork for UCSC to establish cooperative research and education programs with those institutions.

Yonsei University is Kang's alma mater and has strong research programs in information technology and biomedical technology. At Konkuk University, Greenwood gave a lecture on science and engineering graduate education in an international context.

The chancellor also met with representatives of leading Korean technology companies, including Soo-Young Lee, chairman of Dongyang Chemical Group and president of the Inchon Chamber of Commerce, and Yong-Kyung Lee, CEO of Korea Telecom.

UCSC started a program last year to provide training for mid-level managers at Korea Telecom, a leading telecommunications company. (See earlier [Currents story.)][2]  

On the arts side, the trip included visits to the Korean National University of Arts, the National Center for Korean Traditional Performing Arts, and the Korea Foundation. A primary goal was to promote collaborations with Korean institutions to help support efforts to establish a Pacific Rim Cultural Center and create a Korean music program at UCSC.  

The Korea Foundation provided UCSC with grants in 2002 and 2004 for Korean music workshops and also sent traditional musicians for concert appearances at their own expense in 1993. Kim noted that the Korea Foundation has already pledged $10,000 for current Korean music workshops at UCSC's Music Department and Porter College.   

Greenwood and Kim also met with Seong-Yong Park, honorary president of the KumHo Group in Korea and chair of a committee in the Foreign Ministry Department made up of major business CEOs. Talks revolved around sponsorship of concerts for UCSC's 2005 Pacific Rim Music Festival, as well as future collaborations after that event.

[1]: mailto:srapp@ucsc.edu
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-06/telecom.html

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-09/korea.html "Permalink to korea")
