---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/chemers_martin.150.jpg
    - caption: "Martin M. Chemers"
  -
    - file: ../art/banff_film_festival.220.jpg
    - caption: "From the film Wehyakin. Courtesy of Banff Mountain Festivals"
---

More News

Chancellor to hold staff forum on February 18  

Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood will hold her winter brown-bag forum with staff members on February 18 from 12:30 to 1:40 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2\. The chancellor will address the budget situation, including the Executive Budget Committee process on campus, as well as other subjects brought up by staffers during the question-and-answer session.  
top

Campus Provost Martin Chemers to give lecture on effective leadership February 19

What are the characteristics of effective leaders? What kinds of factors affect "nontraditional" leaders, i.e., women and people of color? Campus provost and professor of psychology [Martin M. Chemers][1] will discuss his research on effective leadership on February 19 from noon to 1:30 p.m. at the Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D. The talk by Chemers, titled "Heavy Mettle: The Role of Confidence and Optimism in Personal Effectiveness," is the first of two Diversity Lectures sponsored by the Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Office during the winter quarter.

Chemers, who came to UCSC in 1995, is the author and/or editor of over 60 articles and seven books, including _An Integrative Theory of Leadership _(Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1997) and _ Diversity in Organizations: New Perspectives for a Changing Workplace _(Sage Publications, 1995), coedited with Mark Costanzo and Stuart Oskamp.   
  
Reservations are required; contact Andrea Monroe at (831) 459-5087 or [andream@ucsc.edu][2].  
top

Register to vote by February 17 for the March 2 election

The deadline to register to vote in the March 2 Presidential Primary is   
Tuesday, February 17. To register on campus, go to <http://www.ucsc.edu/resources/register_to_vote/how_to.html>

To read statements by the candidates for president and senator, go to the [Candidate Statement Information][3] page of the official state Voter Information Guide.

To learn more about the propositions on the ballot, go to the [Propositions page][4] of the official state Voter Information Guide.  
top

Presentation and open house added to public hearing on Coastal LRDP

UCSC will hold a public hearing on Thursday, February 19, to receive comments on a draft Environmental Impact Report that has been prepared related to future development at Long Marine Laboratory and adjoining property. The hearing will take place at the laboratory, from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Seymour Marine Discovery Center's La Feliz Room.  

The draft EIR examines the environmental effects of a Coastal Long Range Development Plan (CLRDP) that UCSC has prepared for 98 acres known as the UCSC Marine Science Campus.  

In addition, two other elements have been added to the evening's schedule: a presentation of the CLRDP, from 5 to 6 p.m., and a CLRDP Open House, from 8 to 9 p.m.  

See full text of [press release][5] on the EIR hearing.  
top

Banff Mountain Film Festival Feb. 21-22 to benefit UCSC recreation scholarship programs

The [Banff Mountain Film Festival][6] will thrill and inspire you with big-screen stories and adventures when it comes to the Rio Theatre on Soquel Avenue in Santa Cruz on Saturday and Sunday, February 21 and 22 at 7 p.m. Be moved. Be inspired. Climb the highest peaks, paddle the wildest waters, and journey to some of the most enchanting and beautiful places on the planet. A different set of films will be shown each evening. See [descriptions of films][7]

The event is a benefit for the UCSC Wilderness Orientation Scholarship Program and the UCSC Recreation Adventure Outings Scholarship Fund. It is presented by National Geographic and Dunham Bootmakers with local sponsorship by UCSC Recreation, Bugaboo, Pacific Edge, and Adventure Sports.  

The cost is $12/general admission; $10/students. Tickets are available at Bugaboo (831 429-6300), Pacific Edge Climbing Gym (831 454-9254) and the UCSC Ticket Office (831 459-2159).  
top

Applications for the Management Skills Assessment Program due February 20   
  
The systemwide Management Skills Assessment Program (MSAP) is a unique residential workshop designed to assess a manager's current managerial skills within the UC context. MSAP will take place at Asilomar Conference Center in Pacific Grove April 26 - 30. Applications are due February 20.

Participants in MSAP receive feedback on their skills during simulated management scenarios and case studies. At the end of the week, participants discuss their strengths and areas for growth with an assessor and begin plans for enhancing their management skills and careers at UC.

The fee for the program is $800. For more information and/or an application, go to the [MSAP web site][8] or contact Barbara Perman, manager of Training and Development at UCSC, at (831) 459-3934 or [bperman@ucsc.edu][9].   
top   

Women at Work Retreat accepting applications for April 29-30 retreat   

The 18th annual [Women at Work Retreat][10] will be held on Thursday, April 29, and Friday, April 30, at the St. Francis Retreat Center in San Juan Bautista. The theme of this year's retreat is "Building Bridges, Making Connections." The retreat will focus on building job-related skills, career development opportunities, and networking among campus staff. All nonprobationary and part-time career staff in any job classification up to and including professional and support staff are eligible to attend. The cost of the retreat is $95 per person. If your unit is unable to pay for your attendance, a limited number of partial or full scholarships are available. Applications are due March 1 to Laura McCann in Fleet Services. For more information or an application, contact Laura McCann at (831) 459-2228.  
top

Winter groundbreaking likely for Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Groundbreaking is expected this winter for the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building. The project will consist of three buildings located at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives on what is now a parking lot northwest of Cowell College. [Construction update story][11]  
[ ][12]top   
  

[Return to Front Page][13]  

[1]: http://psych.ucsc.edu/Faculty/mChemers.shtml
[2]: mailto:andream@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://www.voterguide.ss.ca.gov/cand/cand.html
[4]: http://www.voterguide.ss.ca.gov/propositions/propositions.html
[5]: http://press.ucsc.edu/text.asp?pid=446
[6]: http://www.banffcentre.ca/mountainculture/festivals/film/
[7]: banff_films.html
[8]: http://msap.ucdavis.edu
[9]: mailto:bperman@ucsc.edu
[10]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/womenatwork/
[11]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[12]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[13]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-16/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
