---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

_Science News_ magazine turned to astrophysicist **Stan Woosley** for commentary on stunning new images of a supernova remnant obtained by NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory, while _New Scientist_ magazine quoted Woosley in a story about gamma-ray bursts.

Psychology's **Bill Domhoff **was a prominent respondent in a recent _Newsweek _cover story about dream research, and Domhoff also discussed the meaning of dreams with the _Palm Beach Post_.

Philosophy professor** John Doris** was quoted in Canada's_National Post_ in an article about research on the nature of goodness to be funded by the lawyer for Oskar Schindler, using proceeds set aside from premieres of the film _Schindler's List_.

**Mark Carr,** associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ article about a state decision to restart efforts to create a network of marine protected areas along the California coast.

The _Contra Costa Times _and the _San Jose Mercury News _ran comments by sociologist **Mike Males **about the latest proposal by state Senator John Vasconcellos to lower the state voting age to 16. Males also discussed youth curfews with _The Indiana Lawyer _in a story about an Indiana curfew law that was recently ruled unconstitutional by a federal court.

_San Francisco Chronicle_ book critic David Kipen lauded literature professor **John Jordan**, and professor of English and comparative literature **Murray Baumgarten** in an account of a week he spent at UCSC's Dicken's Project, describing it as a "leading international center for Dickens studies that also produces and directs much fine scholarship...that may just be literary California's best kept secret."

**Gary Griggs,** director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in stories in the _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ about new funding for the Center for Integrated Marine Technologies.

Social sciences dean and economist **Michael Hutchison **appeared on a recent KSBW-TV report about job losses in Santa Cruz County, discussing the impact of rising gas prices and the state budget squeeze.

Women's studies research associate **Peggy Downes Baskin** was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ article about life and career choices made by women in their late 20s and 30s. Baskin was also quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ article about career women balancing their work and home lives.

An article in _New Scientist_ magazine about the planetary collision that created the moon included quotes from **Erik Asphaug,** associate professor of Earth sciences.

Politics prof **Dan Wirls **was interviewed about the U.S. Senate by the _Denver Post_.

The _Chronicle of Higher Education_ ran a story about "Second-Career Scientists" featuring **Jim Kent,** a researcher in the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, who left a successful career as a computer programmer to earn his Ph.D. in biology at UCSC.

The _Los Angeles Times _quoted economist **Rob Fairlie **in a story about jobs data that focused on the self-employed.

Vice chancellor for research **Robert Miller** was quoted in a story about university technology transfer programs in the _Seattle Times._

The _Watsonville Register-Pajaronian_ ran a story about a well-attended bird walk in the Watsonville Slough led by **Todd Newberry,** professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology.

Sociologist **Melanie DuPuis **fielded a call from KSCO Radio about her new volume of essays about air pollution.

**Alan Litke,** adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about a grant he received for research in neurobiology.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story about an endowment established by psychology professor emerita **Melanie J. Mayer** to benefit history research in Special Collections at the Library. Ohio's _Journal News _also ran a front-page feature story on the endowment.

An article in _Wired News_ about the Tagging of Pacific Pelagics program for tracking the migrations of marine life included quotes from postdoctoral researcher **Scott Shaffer.**

The late professor emerita of art **Mary Holmes** was quoted in a _Washington Times_ story about the musical, _Crowns_, a tribute to the "hat queens" of the South.

_Sea Technology_ magazine ran an article about the first expedition of the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program led by **Andrew Fisher,** professor of Earth sciences.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/09-06/news.html "Permalink to news")
