---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/affiliates_students.220.jpg
    - caption: "Affiliates scholarship winners (l-r) Salvador Contreras, Lisa Caldwell, Jeffrey Henise, and Shannon Zollinger at a luncheon at the University Center. Missing: Shawn Agarwal and Tiffany Fullmer"
  -
    - file: ../art/osterbrock_donald.120.jpg
    - caption: "Donald Osterbrock"
  -
    - file: ../art/diversity_awards.380.jpg
    - caption: "Diversity award recipients (l-r), back row: Scott Berlin (Dining Services), Alex Reveles (Crown/Merrill), Phillip Crews (chemistry), Candy Berlin (Dining Services), Blanca Caldera (Dining Services); front row: Lucy Rojas (Dining Services), Alma Sifuentes (Dining Services), Peggy Church (Multicultural Engineering Program), Patricia Zavella (Chicano/Latino Research Center), Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers, Olga Najera-Ramirez (Chicano/Latino Research Center), Evelyn Parada (Chicano/Latino Resource Center), Ann Richards (Dining Services)"
---

Awards and Honors

Awards honor 'Excellence Through Diversity'  

Efforts promoting a diverse and inclusive environment were recognized June 10 at the UCSC Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action Excellence Through Diversity awards. Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers presented awards to five units and individuals providing programs, courses, activities, and one-on-one mentoring that put into practice [UCSC's Principles of Community][1].

This year's award winners are the [Chicano/Latino Research Center; ][2][Phillip Crews,][3] professor of chemistry; the [School of Engineering Multicultural Engineering Program; ][4]Alex Reveles, college administrative officer at Merrill and Crown Colleges; and Dining University**, **a training and orientation program for the more than 200 dining services employees who recently joined UCSC. For descriptions of these individuals and programs, see the full text of [press release][5].  
top

UCSC Affiliates honors scholarship winners  

Six students were awarded scholarships this past year by the UCSC Affiliates, a campus support group. The six recipients were Shawn Agarwal, Lisa Caldwell, Salvador Contreras, Tiffany Fullmer, Jeffrey Henise, and Shannon Zollinger.

Four of the scholarship recipients were luncheon guests of the Affiliates Board of Directors on May 20 at the University Center. The students spoke to the board about their UCSC experiences and current work. Board members were delighted by their presentations and enjoyed the opportunity to get to know them better.   

UCSC Affiliates was the first support group to organize on campus, and the group has been awarding scholarships to deserving students from the Monterey Bay area for nearly 40 years. The Affiliates scholarship program differs from most award programs in that it continues its support of students as long as they remain in good academic standing. In recent years, students have received up to $800 per academic quarter.  

Membership in the Affiliates is open to all interested in continuing the support of a vital link between the campus and community as well as providing scholarships for deserving students. For more information, call (831) 459-2501.  
top

Donald Osterbrock receives honorary degree from University of Cincinnati  

The University of Cincinnati awarded an honorary D.Sc. degree to Donald Osterbrock, professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics and former director of Lick Observatory. Osterbrock received the degree at a ceremony on June 11 during the university's commencement exercises.   

In honoring Osterbrock, the University of Cincinnati noted his many accomplishments over the years, singling out two in particular. First, he has been credited with almost single-handedly saving the Cincinnati Observatory Center, which is in the process of being privatized and is now a National Historic Landmark. Secondly, his book_ Astrophysics of Gaseous Nebulae_ (and its expanded edition, _Astrophysics of Gaseous Nebulae and Active Galactic Nuclei_) has been used as an authoritative reference for half a century and remains the definitive book on its subject. Osterbrock's work has taught a generation of astrophysicists much of what they know about the interstellar medium.   

Osterbrock said this degree has special significance to him because he was born, grew up, and was educated in Cincinnati, as were both of his parents. In addition, both his father and his brother were professors of electrical engineering at the University of Cincinnati.  

Osterbrock came to UCSC in 1972 and served as director of Lick Observatory from 1973 to 1981. Before joining the UCSC faculty, he was affiliated with Princeton University, the California Institute of Technology, and the University of Wisconsin.   

Osterbrock is now 80 years old and is officially retired, but continues to mentor and work with students. He remains a highly regarded researcher and contributor and has published several books on the history of American astronomy. His many awards include the highest honors bestowed upon astronomers by the world's leading astronomical societies.   
_By [Tim Stephens][6]_   
top

[Return to Front Page][7]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/principles_community.asp
[2]: http://www.lals.ucsc.edu/clrc/
[3]: http://www.chemistry.ucsc.edu/crews_p.html
[4]: http://mep.soe.ucsc.edu/
[5]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/text.asp?pid=522
[6]: mailto:stephens@ucsc.edu
[7]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-28/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
