---
layout: post
title: "awards"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/charlene_danny.180.jpg
    - caption: "Charlene Lo and Danny Ambrose Photo: Donna Blitzer"
---

Awards and Honors

Students honored by Second Harvest Food Bank

UCSC students Charlene Lo and Danny Ambrose, both seniors at Oakes College, were honored by Second Harvest Food Bank at its awards dinner on Thursday, April 15, at Temple Beth El in Aptos.

The two were chosen for Hunger Fighter of the Year awards because of their leadership and commitment to the student food drive over the past years. The two served as coordinators of the Student Volunteer Connection, a student-run organization designed to involve students in the Santa Cruz community through meaningful volunteer opportunities.

Lo is a sociology major who hopes to work in the nonprofit sector after graduation. She plans on gaining further experience in public policy and traveling before pursuing graduate school. Ambrose is majoring in intensive psychology and will be attending Indiana University (at Bloomington) in the fall to begin working on a master's in student affairs administration.  

"Working with such a devoted group of UCSC staff and administrators through the years has truly been an inspiration. Charlene and I have learned so much about our university, our community, and ourselves as a result of our continued involvement in the Second Harvest Food Drive," said Ambrose.  
top

**Jonathan Fox recipient of fellowship to pursue research on institutional transparency**

Jonathan Fox, professor of Latin American and Latino studies, has been named a 2004-05 fellow by the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C. The residential fellowship will support Fox's research on transparency and institutional accountability.  

Fox, coeditor of the book _Demanding Accountability: Civil Society Claims and the World Bank Inspection Panel,_ is interested in the conditions under which institutional transparency promotes public accountability. While in Washington, Fox will examine the track records of international institutional transparency reforms in order to assess their accountability impacts and to determine their specific causal pathways.  
top   

Lori Kletzer's work cited by Fed governor

In recent remarks about trade and jobs during the Distinguished Speaker Series at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, Federal Reserve Board governor Ben Bernanke cited work by UCSC economics professor Lori Kletzer.  

Bernanke relied heavily on Kletzer's work estimating trade-induced job losses, which she calculated at nearly 310,000 per year for the period from 1979 to 1999.   

Kletzer, who is chair of the Economics Department, is a widely quoted source in the outsourcing debate. She is coauthor of a wage insurance proposal that would provide up to two years of financial help to workers who lose their jobs through no fault of their own and who go on to get a new job that pays less than their previous job.   
top

Diane Gifford-Gonzalez is invited speaker at African conference  

Anthropology professor Diane Gifford-Gonzalez was an invited presenter of a paper on animal disease barriers to the spread of herding economies in sub-Saharan Africa at the Second Genome in Africa Conference that was held March 26-29 in Cairo, Egypt. The annual session, entitled "Genomics and Society: The Future Health of Africa," was organized by the Human Research Council of South Africa and Ain Shams University in Cairo.  
top   

Susanne Jonas speaks on Guatemala to U.S. Holocaust Museum committee  

Latin American and Latino studies lecturer Susanne Jonas was a featured speaker at a winter forum sponsored by the U.S. Holocaust Museum's Committee of Conscience. She discussed the genocidal acts that occurred in Guatemala.  
top

[Return to Front Page][1]

[1]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-26/awards.html "Permalink to awards")
