---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/vanpool2.200.jpg
    - caption: "Some members of the San Lorenzo Valley vanpool pose by their van: (l-r) Jacky Leighton, Jenny Anderson, Alice Burke, Kathleen Dettman, Jennifer Walker, Vicki Davis (driver), and Elizabeth Dilkes."
  -
    - file: ../art/killion_tom.print.200.jpg
    - caption: "'Santa Cruz from the Pogonip' by Tom Killion, 1979"
---

More News

'Fateful Attractions' exhibit in San Francisco to showcase work of alumni book artists  

Santa Cruz has nurtured a lively community of fine-press printers and bookmakers for more than three decades. A new exhibition, "Fateful Attractions," opening March 5 at the [San Francisco Center for the Book][1] (300 DeHaro Street), takes visitors back to the beginning of letterpress printing at UCSC, and then moves forward to showcase a wide variety of contemporary bookworks in the local community.   

Curated by Gregory Graalfs, the show includes work from UCSC's Cowell Press and the Lime Kiln Press, plus works by accomplished alumni book artists such as Tom Killion, Gary Young, Ruth McGurk, Felicia Rice, and Peter Thomas. The exhibit runs through June 4. An opening reception will be held on Friday March 5, at 7 p.m. Exhibit hours are Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Saturdays from noon to 4 p.m. For more information, call (415) 565-0545.   
top

Campus vanpools are looking for more riders  

Several campus vanpools now have openings, including:

* San Lorenzo Valley, serving Boulder Creek, Ben Lomond, Felton, and Scotts Valley, for those on an 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. work schedule  
* Live Oak, beginning at Brommer and 38th Street and making stops at 38th and Portola and in front of the Seabright Brewery, also on an  
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. shift.  

* Soquel, starting at the Park and Ride lot near Dominican Hospital and serving an 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. schedule.  
* Mid County Vanpool, starting in Capitola near Bay Avenue and the freeway, serving a 7:30-4:30 work schedule.  

Monthly fares for riding in a vanpool range from $19.50 to $25.75. The fare provides participants with approximately four parking passes a month and enrollment in the Emergency Ride Home Program in case they have to leave work early due to an unforeseen circumstance. Transportation and Parking Services administers 16 vanpools, nine of them from Watsonville. For additional information, call (831) 469-1942, or e-mail [cacrowe@ucsc.edu][2].  
top   

Sound and performance artist Matt Heckert to give lecture on March 4  

San Francisco sound and performance artist [Matt Heckert][3] will give a lecture titled "Activating the Medium" on Thursday, March 4, at 7 p.m. in the Media Theater. The lecture will be preceded by a performance by the student group Anti-Tact in the Baskin Sculpture Studios from 6 to 7 p.m. The events are free and open to the public.  
  
During the 1980s, Heckert was one of a trio of artists who developed Survival Research Laboratories, creating remote and radio-controlled robots and designing soundtracks. In 1989 he began working on the "Mechanical Sound Orchestra," a group of computer-controlled mechanical sound instruments. His captivating sound performances are as much happenings as music--the sound you hear is "performed" by the instruments themselves.

Over the past several years Heckert's "Mechanical Sound Orchestra" has traveled throughout the U.S. and Europe including the Sonambiente Festival (Berlin) and the Whitney Museum of American Art (New York). He is a recipient of numerous awards including the WESTAF/NEA Sculpture Fellowship (1991) and the Prix Arts Electronica (1997).

For more information, call (831) 459-5667 or visit the [Mary Porter Sesnon Gallery][4] on the web.  
top

Campus community members invited to take trip to China  

Faculty, students, staff, and alumni--as well as their partners and children over age 11--are invited to take a partially subsidized trip to China in July as "ambassadors of peace." The trip is sponsored by [Legends of China,][5] a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization, which focuses on positive relationships between the United States and China. The trip will include sightseeing as well as participation in the Silk Road to the Future ceremony at the Great Wall, where 500 Chinese students will join 500 U.S. students, staff, and faculty to celebrate world peace and the growing goodwill between the two nations. The application deadline is April 9, but a limited number from each UC campus are invited, and it is first-come, first-served.[ Application information][6]  

Information sessions on the trip will be held on Monday, March 8, at noon and 5:30 p.m., and on Wednesday, March 31, at 5 p.m., in Namaste Lounge at College Nine. For more information, call (831) 459-3149 or e-mail [dslater@ucsc.edu][7].   
top

College Nine hosting Model United Nations conference

College Nine will host the first annual conference of the Santa Cruz International Model United Nations on Saturday, March 6. Students from across the university will represent 16 different countries in a mock session of the United Nations General Assembly and discuss sustainable development and protection of the world's water resources for future generations. California State Assembly member John Laird will present the closing speech.

The conference, which is open to the campus community, will be held from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room. For more information contact Erin Ramsden, (831) 459-4069 prior to March 3.  
top

Eligibility expanded for reduced-fee enrollment in UCSC programs

Discounts for UCSC employees on UCSC, Summer Session, and Extension classes have been made consistent. Now all career staff and many academic employees are eligible for the Reduced-Fee Enrollment Program.  

* **Regular Admission:** To participate, the employee must be a regularly admitted UCSC student. The employee pays one third of the educational and registration fees; campus fees are waived. For undergraduate enrollment, the employee pays $554.40 per quarter; for graduate enrollment, the employee pays $580 per quarter. Maximum of three classes, or 15 units (whichever is greater), per quarter.   
* **Concurrent Enrollment:** Offers employees an opportunity to take a sampling of courses if they have not been admitted to the university as a regularly enrolled student. Fee reduction varies based on number of credits; for a five-credit course, which normally costs $495, employee pays $165. Maximum of 10 units per quarter.   
* **Summer Session**: For unlimited enrollment classes, employee pays $100 registration fee for one session or $175 for two sessions, plus affiliated course fees. For limited enrollment classes, employee pays $200 for one session or $275 for two sessions plus affiliated course fees.  
* **University Extension:** Fee reduction is 30 percent discount per course, not to exceed $150 per course.

Details of the fee-reduction programs and applications are available at [www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev/td/general_info/Reduced_Fee.html][8]  
top

UCTV to air conversation between Chancellor Greenwood and Kathy Sullivan

UCTV is rebroadcasting Chancellor Greenwood's interview with alumna and astronaut Kathy Sullivan on Santa Cruz Community Television, Channel 25 (Comcast), on March 6 at 9 a.m. This program is also available for viewing on demand at the UCTV web site; go to [www.uctv.tv/ondemand][9].

For a complete listing of UCTV programs, go to [www.uctv.tv.][10]  
top

Life Lab Garden Classroom offers spring break day camp for kids

Children 7 to 11 are invited to join the staff at the UCSC Farm April 5-9 for spring gardening, cooking, and crafts.

Campers will prepare and eat wood-fired garden pizzas, pop fall-harvest popcorn, and roast sunflower seeds. Gardening activities will include seed sowing for home gardens, taking cuttings, composting, and planting. Garden-based crafts will round out an exciting week of activities.

The camp is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. each day, and the cost is $230 for the public or $200 for Life Lab Science Program members.

For more information, contact John Fisher at (831) 459-4035 or [gardencoordinator@lifelab.org][11].  
top  

Winter groundbreaking likely for Humanities and Social Sciences Building

Groundbreaking is expected this winter for the $29 million Humanities and Social Sciences Building. The project will consist of three buildings located at the corner of McLaughlin and Hagar Drives on what is now a parking lot northwest of Cowell College. [Construction update story][12]  
[ ][13]top   
  

[Return to Front Page][14]  

[1]: http://www.sfcb.org/index.php3
[2]: mailto:cacrowe@ucsc.edu
[3]: http://www.mattheckert.com/
[4]: http://arts.ucsc.edu/sesnon/
[5]: http://www.legendsofchina.com
[6]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/legendsofchina
[7]: mailto:dslater@ucsc.edu
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/train-dev/td/general_info/Reduced_Fee.html
[9]: http://www.uctv.tv/ondemand
[10]: http://www.uctv.tv/
[11]: mailto:gardencoordinator@lifelab.org
[12]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[13]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[14]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-01/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
