---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/kim_hi.kyung.04-08-23.jpg
    - caption: "Hi Kyung Kim"
---

News Briefs

UCSC faculty perform in Australia

_Rituel III,_ a composition by associate music professor Hi Kyung Kim, received its world premiere during a concert in July at the Symposium of the International Musicological Society in Melbourne, Australia. Presented as part of a program titled "Korean Music Today," the piece was also performed at the Intercultural Creativity Festival/Conference in Sydney. A paper, titled "A Contemporary Globalisation of Korean Arts and Religion: Hi Kyung Kim's Rituels," was also presented at both events by musicologist Jinmi Davidson of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

_Rituel III_ is a collaborative work featuring composer Kim; multimedia artist and UCSC assistant art professor Elliot Anderson; clarinetist and music lecturer John Sackett; percussion lecturer William Winant; San Francisco Conservatory cellist Jean-Michel Fonteneau; stage director and music lecturer Brian Staufenbiel; lighting artist Sylvie Vray; and Ensemble Parallele, conducted by music professor Nicole Paiement; plus music performed by the Korean ensemble: Jeong Seung Kim on daegeum, Chan Hae Lee on jing, and dancer/choreographer Aeju Lee, the Korean National Intangible Treasure in Buddhist Dance.  

_Rituel III_ will receive its U.S. premiere next May at UCSC's Pacific Rim Music Festival. Subsequent performances are planned for Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco.  
top   

Portion of Hagar Drive closed week of Aug. 23-27

Hagar Drive, between Steinhart Way and McLaughlin Drive, will be closed to through traffic during the week of August 23-27 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The contractor will be working in an electrical vault beneath Hagar to bring power and communication lines to the Humanities and Social Sciences construction site. Access will be limited to emergency services and bookstore delivery vehicles only. All other through traffic will be detoured to McLaughlin Drive.  
top

New CruzMail sessions scheduled

Training and Development has scheduled several new sessions to help staff and faculty members learn more about the [CruzMail system][1] being expanded on campus (see earlier [Currents story][2]).  

Although these are drop-in sessions, those planning to participate are asked to RSVP to instructor Frank Widman at [fwidman@ucsc.edu ][3]if possible.  

Sessions will be in Room 159 of Kerr Hall at the following times:  
* 4-5 p.m. Tuesday, September 28  
* 1-2 p.m. Wednesday, October 13  
* 4-5 p.m. Thursday, October 28  
* 4-5 p.m. Tuesday, November 9.  

In addition, a session in Room 247 of Kerr Hall will be held from 10 to 11 p.m. on Monday, November 1.  
top

UCTV to air video from UCSC's Jewish Studies Program

UCTV will broadcast a new program from UCSC's Jewish Studies program, titled "War and Democracy in the Ancient and Contemporary Middle East." In it, Victor Davis Hanson, a professor of classics at California State University, Fresno, and a UCSC alumnus, leads a discussion on the nature of war throughout civilization and how it might enlighten us about the contemporary troubles in the Middle East. The program was presented as part of UCSC's Jewish Studies Lectures.

"War and Democracy" will air nationwide on Dish Network satellite, channel 9412, on Thursday, August 26, at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. It will air on local cable in Santa Cruz, Comcast channel 25, on Thursday, August 26, at 9:30 p.m.

For more information, go to the [UCTV][4] web site.   
top

Reminder: Update your information in the campus directory

It's time to update your information in the printed UC Santa Cruz Campus Directory. Do you have a different position on campus? Did your name change? Are you a new employee? Now is the time to update those changes to the directory. Even if you haven't had any changes, it's best to double-check your listing to make sure it's accurate.

All changes can be made on the directory web page:[ http://cats-nts2.ucsc.edu/infcom/login.cfm][5]

Changes must be made by Wednesday, September 1, to appear in the next printed edition of the campus directory. If you have any questions or comments about individual directory listings, please send e-mail to [phonebk@ucsc.edu][6] or call (831) 459-5225.  
top

[Return to Front Page][7]

[1]: https://cruzmail.ucsc.edu/
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/07-26/cruzmail.html
[3]: mailto:fwidman@ucsc.edu
[4]: http://www.uctv.tv
[5]: http://cats-nts2.ucsc.edu/infcom/login.cfm
[6]: ../8-9/mailto;phonebk@ucsc.edu
[7]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-23/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
