---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3844
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Seismologist <b>Thorne Lay</b> was featured in widespread media coverage of the scientific analysis of the great Sumatra-Andaman earthquake of December 26, 2004. Lay was interviewed by CNN TV and radio stations KCBS and KSCO. He was quoted in stories in the <i>New York Times, San Jose Mercury News, San Francisco Chronicle, Contra Costa Times, Arizona Republic, Houston Chronicle,</i> and other national and international newspapers, and on <i>Discovery Channel News, Sci-Tech News</i>, and other web sites. An Associated Press story with quotes from Lay ran in newspapers throughout the world and on numerous web sites.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted associate history professor <b>Pedro Castillo</b> in an article about how Santa Ana businesses incorporate the names of Mexican towns to attract customers and reach out to former neighbors.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Susan Harding</b> was featured in a <i>USA Today</i> article about the exceptional success of Billy Graham.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the dedication of the Laboratory for Adaptive Optics featured <b>Claire Max</b>, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, <b>Joseph Miller</b>, director of UCO/Lick Observatory, and lab director <b>Don Gavel</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>Denice Denton</b> was featured in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about a science seminar for Bay Area high school girls at which Denton spoke.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of film and digital media <b>Gustavo Vazquez</b> was quoted in the Associated Press about the battle to preserve trees in the main square of historic Oaxaca, Mexico.
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Mike Males</b> was quoted in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about the impact the prevalence of pornography in popular culture is having on teens. The article noted that teens today have the lowest rates of pregnancy, birth, and abortion in decades, and Males cautioned that adults always think "kids today are worse."
</p>
<p>
  Biologists <b>Terrie Williams</b> and <b>Jim Estes</b> were featured in a <i>Mid-County Post</i> story about the California sea otter population.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> spoke with the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about trends in teenage unemployment.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey Herald</i> ran a story about rattlesnakes featuring <b>Margaret Fusari,</b> director of the UCSC natural reserves.
</p>
<p>
  Writing Program lecturer <b>Ellen Newberry</b> was quoted in a <i>Monterey County Herald</i> article about the Central California Writing Project, of which she is the director.
</p>
<p>
  In a story about the Farm School in Athol, Massachusetts, the Associated Press noted the hands-on apprenticeship in organic farming and gardening offered by the <b>Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems</b>. CNN and Forbes picked up the AP story.
</p>
<p>
  Visiting assistant professor of film and digital media <b>Edward O'Neill</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about "reality" television show producers coming to Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> was part of a panel discussion about globalization and the local labor scene on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/05-23/news.asp "Permalink to news")
