---
layout: post
title: "pubs"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/schechter_delgado_200.jpg
    - caption: "John Schechter (left) and Guillermo Delgado-P. with Louisa Stark, an Andean studies scholar and a retired professor of anthropology and linguistics. UCSC Photo Services"
---

Publications

Faculty coedit major interdisciplinary volume on native South American studies

Music professor and Merrill College provost John M. Schechter and Latin American and Latino studies lecturer Guillermo Delgado-P. have coedited a major interdisciplinary volume on Quechua (native South American) linguistics, cultural studies, comparative literature, ethnohistory, and ethnomusicology.

Titled _Quechua Verbal Artistry: The Inscription of Andean Voices / Arte Expresivo Quechua: La Inscripcion de Voces Andinas,_ the book contains 19 scholarly papers addressing Quechua verbal artistry, as evidenced in colonial Quechua manuscript and myth, and in contemporary Quechua song text, riddle, narrative, poetry, market dialogue, and children's stories. Represented among its authors are internationally known scholars from nine countries: Bolivia, Peru, Germany, Netherlands, Italy, United Kingdom, United States, Ecuador, and Colombia.   

The book contains analysis of numerous dialects of Quechua/Quichua and Aymara from Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia. A distinctive feature is the use of different fonts throughout the volume to reflect Quechua or Aymara, versus Spanish, roots and suffixes. The papers are in either English or Spanish, with all the Quechua texts translated, accordingly, into English or Spanish.  
top

_Whitewashing Race_ honored by Hooks Institute  
  
The 2003 book [_Whitewashing Race: The Myth of a Color-Blind Society,][1]_ coauthored by UCSC professors Michael K. Brown and David Wellman and five other scholars, has been named the first recipient of the Benjamin L. Hooks Outstanding Book Award.  

Brown and Wellman, professors of politics and community studies, respectively, were lead authors on the book, which shows the cumulative effects of inequality on blacks and the long-term positive benefits of institutional discrimination for whites. A compelling analysis of the institutional roots of racial disparity in the United States, the book includes discussion of ways to transcend insitutionalized racism in today's post-affirmative action era.  

D'Ann R. Penner, codirector of the[ Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change][2], called _Whitewashing Race_ a "remarkable piece of collaborative scholarship. We at the Hooks Institute hope that its arc of influence will be as wide as possible."  

The award will be presented at a ceremony and public lecture to be held at the University of Memphis. Each author will receive a framed certificate.  
In addition to Brown and Wellman, coauthors of the book are Martin Carnoy, professor of education and economics at Stanford University; Elliott Currie, a research associate at UC Berkeley; Troy Duster, professor of sociology at UC Berkeley; David B. Oppenheimer, associate dean for academic affairs and professor of law at Golden Gate University; and Marjorie M. Shultz, professor of law at UC Berkeley.  

The [Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change][2] is a University of Memphis research center dedicated to advancing understanding of the legacy of the American civil rights movement through academic research and community programs on the civil rights movement, race relations, strong communities, public education, and economic development. The institute honors the legacy of Benjamin L. Hooks, who was executive director of the NAACP from 1977 to 1992 and was the first African American appointee to the Federal Communications Commission, serving from 1972 to 1978.  
top

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://www.ucpress.edu/books/pages/9866.html
[2]: http://benhooks.memphis.edu/
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-14/pubs.html "Permalink to pubs")
