---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/circus_dancers.180.jpg
    - caption: "The Flynn Creek Circus's Nova Jo Yaco and her hoochie-coochie girls. Photo: David Adam Edelstein"
  -
    - file: ../art/mrc_mayors.220.jpg
    - caption: "Chancellor Greenwood is joined by Santa Cruz City Council members (l-r) Emily Reilly, Scott Kennedy, Mike Rotkin, and Cynthia Matthews, all former mayors, except for Kennedy, who is currently serving as mayor."
---

News Briefs

Chancellor Greenwood honored by Santa Cruz City Council

During a recent meeting with the Santa Cruz City Council, Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood was presented with a resolution praising her leadership and thanking her for her many contributions to the community.

Santa Cruz mayor Scott Kennedy proclaimed Tuesday, March 23, as "M.R.C. Greenwood Day" and encouraged all the citizens of Santa Cruz to join him in thanking Chancellor Greenwood and wishing her well in her future endeavors.

[full text of resolution honoring Chancellor Greenwood][1]  
top

Flynn Creek Circus at Porter College April 2-4  

[Flynn Creek Circus,][2] a collaborative group of internationally traveled American circus artists will perform and host workshops at the Second Annual American Circus Festival at UCSC on April 2, 3, and 4. The show features performances on the single and doubles trapeze as well as aerial silks, clowning, and live music.  

Show times are Friday, April 2, and Saturday, April 3, at 8 p.m., and Sunday, April 4, at 2 p.m. in the Porter College Dining Hall. Tickets are $10 for general admission, $5 for students.

Free circus workshops will be offered throughout the weekend. No reservations are necessary. Some of the workshops likely to be offered are street performance, clowning, stage combat, and aerial skills.  
  
On Sunday, April 4, a reception will be held to close the festival and to give the circus community at large an opportunity to network and exchange ideas.  
top

UCOP HR/Benefits offers new investment options in April  
  
Two new UC-managed investment options will be available to participants in the UCRS Defined Contribution Plan (DC Plan) and Tax-Deferred 403(b) Plan beginning in April. At the same time, the Multi-Asset Fund and the Money Market Fund are closing. The two new funds are the TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) Fund and the Balanced Growth Fund (replacing the Multi-Asset Fund).

The new Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities Fund (TIPS Fund) is composed of United States Treasury Bonds whose principal will be adjusted for changes in the Consumer Price Index. The TIPS Fund will be a stand-alone investment option as well as a component of the new Balanced Growth Fund.  

The Balanced Growth Fund is a blended fund composed of three UC funds with an allocation of 65 percent Equity Fund, 30 percent in the Bond Fund, and 5 percent in the new TIPS Fund. The Money Market Fund, which is closing, and the Savings Fund will not be part of the Balanced Growth Fund. [more information][3]  
top

Summer housing needed for visiting scholars

The Dickens Project is sponsoring a five-week seminar for college instructors, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Fifteen scholars from around the country will be selected to participate and will need housing from approximately June 25 through July 30. Because of the length of time and the attractiveness of Santa Cruz as a vacation destination, some participants may choose to bring their partners or families for all or part of the time. If you are able to offer accommodations during this period, call (831) 459-2103 or send e-mail to [dpj@ucsc.edu][4].  
top

After-school gardening program begins April 13  

The [Life Lab Science Program][5] is offering a new After-School Garden Days program. It will take place from 3:30 to 5 p.m. on five consecutive Tuesdays beginning April 13.  

Children ages 7 to 11 will work alongside garden staff, tending to the hens and honey bees, sowing spring seeds, and cooking in the garden kitchen. The cost is $20 per class or $85 for the series (members of Life Lab pay $75).  
  
For more information, contact John Fisher at (831) 459-4035 or [gardencoordinator@lifelab.org][6].  
top   

Communications Building work nearing completion

Work is nearly complete for interior alterations in the Communications Building to accommodate the expanded needs of the Film and Digital Media and Information Technology Services departments, and people are moving into the facility. The new Communications Building will be dedicated during Banana Slug Spring Fair on April 17.[ Construction update story][7]  
[ ][8]top   

[Return to Front Page][9]

[1]: resolution.html
[2]: http://www.circuscontraption.com/home.html
[3]: http://atyourservice.ucop.edu/news/retirement/new_investment.html
[4]: mailto:dpj@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://www.lifelab.org
[6]: mailto:gardencoordinator@lifelab.org
[7]: http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html
[8]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/
[9]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-29/morenews.html "Permalink to morenews")
