---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
images:
---

UCSC in the News

The _San Jose Mercury News_ ran a profile of **David Haussler,** professor of biomolecular engineering, after he was awarded the Allen Newell Award for his pioneering work in computational biology. Haussler was also quoted in an article in _New Scientist_ magazine about highly conserved DNA sequences in animals.  

**Michael Urban** of politics appeared on KUSP's _Talk of the Bay_ program, discussing the popularity of the blues in Russia.

Music professor **Fredric Lieberman** was quoted in a _Los Angeles Times_ article about donations to UCSC by two foundations established by members of the Grateful Dead to help preserve the late composer Lou Harrison's archive in the library's Special Collections.

**Rem Stone,** director of operations at Lick Observatory, was profiled in a feature story about the observatory on Mt. Hamilton in _Sky & Telescope_ magazine. Several of UCSC's astronomy faculty were also mentioned or quoted in the story, including Sandra Faber, Steven Vogt, and Claire Max.

American studies professor and department chair **Tricia Rose** was quoted in the _Orlando Sentinel_ about sexist images and degrading lyrics in rap music.  

Sociologist **Melanie DuPuis,** editor of a new book about air pollution, appeared on KPFA Radio to discuss the history of air pollution policy.

[Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns][1]  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-14/news.html "Permalink to news")
