---
layout: post
title: "Music Department to stage Broadway opera"
author: Scott Rappaport
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/opera.04-05-24.jpg
    - caption: "For a complete listing of Achievement Week events, see related story."
---

The UCSC Music Department will present _Street Scene,_ a 1947 American opera by composer Kurt Weill, Thursday through Sunday, June 3 to 6, at the Music Center Recital Hall. The annual student opera performance is part of Student Achievement Week at UCSC.   

_Street Scene_ is based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Elmer Rice with book by Elmer Rice, lyrics by Langston Hughes, and music by Kurt Weill. It is presented through special arrangement with the Rodgers and Hammerstein Theatre Library in New York.  

The UCSC production is directed by music lecturer Brian Staufenbiel and conducted by music professor Nicole Paiement.

The cast is made up of current UCSC graduate and undergraduate student singers, recent graduates of the campus music program, and community members (including longtime Santa Cruz actor Brian Spencer and young performers Jonathan Gray, a fifth grader at Gateway School in Santa Cruz, and Luka Primack, a talented young singer who appeared in the Shakespeare Santa Cruz production, _The Wind in the Willows._  

_Street Scene_ tells the story of a hot summer night and the following day in a New York apartment building. The story covers themes of birth, death, anti-Semitism, Jewish identity, Marxism, political conservatism, sexism, feminism, sexual morality, ethnic tension, and tolerance.  

Reserved seating--$16 general, $12 seniors, $10 students--is available at the UCSC Ticket Office, (831) 459-2159.  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-24/opera.html "Permalink to opera")
