---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2857
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Hiroshi Fukurai</b> was interviewed by the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> about Japan's recent decision to reintroduce the jury system, a change that will take effect by 2009. Fukurai was also interviewed by the <i>Daily Gazette</i> in New York about strategies to create racial diversity on juries.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Newsday</i> published a feature article about history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis,</b> focusing on her life and most recent book, <i>Are Prisons Obsolete?</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Donald Croll,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured on KUSP Radio's <i>Life on the Bay</i> program in a week-long series about Croll's research on marine life in Monterey Bay. Croll was also quoted in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the early arrival in the bay of blue whales this year.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was interviewed by a reporter at the <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> for an article about black business ownership.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about history major <b>Martin Smith,</b> winner of the Melkonian Prize, the top honor of the UCSC Humanities Undergraduate Research Awards, describing his research on the Vietnam War (see <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/05-31/research.html">Currents story</a>).
</p>
<p>
  <b>Peter Raimondi,</b> professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in a story in the <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> about the impacts of human visitors on tidepool ecosystems.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> was featured in a <i>National Journal</i> special report that identified the "people whose ideas who will help shape debate on 10 important issues of the day." Kletzer was singled out for her work on workforce quality.
</p>
<p>
  Arts and Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> and music lecturer <b>Mary Jane Cope</b> were quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a benefit concert to raise money for a community school for homeless children.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about UCSC's Science Illustration Program, with quotes from program director <b>Ann Caudle</b> and several current students.
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Craig Haney</b> participated in a Commonwealth Club panel discussion about prison abuse in Iraq that was broadcast on KQED Radio in San Francisco, and he was scheduled for an interview on KUSP Radio.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Mike Males</b> penned an op-ed for the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> that countered the surging stereotype of teen girls as mean bullies. On the contrary, wrote Males, girls today are no more--and usually less--criminal and belligerent than girls a generation ago.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-07/news.html "Permalink to news")
