---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
post_id: 2444
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <i>Daily Variety</i> announced that associate professor of film and digital media <b>Shelley Stamp</b> was selected as a 2003 Academy Film Scholar by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts &amp; Sciences. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a feature article about Stamp's research on silent film director Lois Weber.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Marine ecologist <b>Jim Estes</b> was quoted in a story in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> about a bill that would fund efforts to save California sea otters. Estes and marine mammal physiologist <b>Terrie Williams</b> were also featured in an article in the <i>Anchorage Daily News</i> about their investigations of predation by killer whales on other marine mammals in Alaska.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Robert Coe,</b> professor of Earth sciences, was featured in stories about the weakening of the Earth's magnetic field that appeared in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine, <i>Science Net Daily</i> online, and the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Detroit Free Press,</i> and <i>Duluth News Tribune</i>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Tennessee's <i>Daily Times</i> quoted American studies professor <b>Dana Frank</b> in an article about buying American products.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about a plan to preserve tide pools at Moss Beach included quotes from <b>Peter Raimondi,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> reported on a high profile decision by L.A. Superior Court judge <b>Allan Goodman</b>, a UCSC Foundation trustee and UCSC alumnus, in which he tossed out an invasion-of-privacy lawsuit by Barbra Streisand against an environmental activist who has posted aerial photos of the California coastline on the web.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> announced that history professor <b>Gail Hershatter</b> received the 2003 John Dizikes Teaching Award in Humanities.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/01-05/news.html "Permalink to news")
