---
layout: post
title: "UCSC hosts retreat for global network of entrepreneurs"
author: Scott Rappaport
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/art/raj.05-05-02.jpg
    - caption: "Raj Jaswa, president of The Indus Entrepreneurs Photo: Elizabeth Irwin"
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/art/duo.05-05-02.jpg
    - caption: "Radha Basu and Chancellor Denton at University House dinner Photo: Elizabeth Irwin"
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/art/group.05-05-02.jpg
    - caption: "Kamil Hasan, Talat Hasan, Dard Neuman, and Edward Houghton at the Jack Baskin Engineering Auditorium Photo: Scott Rappaport"
---

Nearly 70 charter members of The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE)--a Silicon Valley not-for-profit network of Indo-American and Indian entrepreneurs and professionals--were introduced to UCSC's research and achievements at a recent retreat held on campus.

The April 22 event included lectures and presentations by faculty at the Jack Baskin Engineering Auditorium, dinner with the chancellor at the University House, as well as an evening of North Indian music featuring sarodist Aashish Khan and tabla artist Pranesh Khan--the sons of world-renowned musician, composer, and teacher Ali Akbar Khan--at the Music Center Recital Hall.  

"I am proud that one of my first guest groups from our regional community is such a distinguished gathering of businesspeople who understand the value of higher education," noted Chancellor Denice D. Denton in her opening remarks. "We look forward to creating new global partnerships with educational institutions and businesses that share our vision," she added.  

Professors Raja Guha Thakurta (astronomy and astrophysics), David Deamer (chemistry and biochemistry), Daniel Press (environmental studies), and Joshua Stuart (biomolecular engineering) treated the guests to presentations illustrating how technology is integral to the advancement of academic inquiry and the discovery of knowledge across a wide range of fields. Arts Division dean Edward Houghton and Dard Neuman, who holds the new Hasan Endowed Chair in Indian Classical Music, also presented an overview of UCSC's program in South Asian studies, which focuses on the culture, music, film, and visual arts of India.  

Guests at the retreat included Dr. Anuradha Luther Maitra, CEO of the software company, Floreat Inc., who established the annual Sidhartha Maitra Lecture Series at UCSC; Dr. Kamil Hasan, founder of HiTek Venture Partners, and his wife, Talat Hasan, who together endowed the Kamil and Talat Hasan Chair in Indian Classical Music; and Kumar Malavalli, CEO of InMage Systems, who recently made a gift of $1 million to UCSC to establish the Malavalli Endowed Chair in Storage Systems Research at the Baskin School of Engineering.  

The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) group was founded in Silicon Valley in 1992. The organization has rapidly grown to include more than 40 chapters in nine countries. The name signifies the ethnic South Asian or Indus roots, and "TiE" stands for Talent, Ideas, and Enterprise.  
  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/05-02/retreat.asp "Permalink to retreat")
