---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5561
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Stephen McCabe</b>, coordinator of research and education at the UCSC Arboretum, was interviewed on <i>The Coastal Gardener</i> television program, broadcast locally on KGO TV. The Arboretum was also mentioned in recent articles in the magazines <i>American Gardener</i> and <i>California Wild</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Toronto Star</i>'s coverage of a conference about neighborhood revitalization featured comments by participant <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies.
</p>
<p>
  Agroecology researcher <b>Phil Howard</b> was quoted in an <i>Alternet.org</i> story about the growing U.S. reliance on imported food.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Science Daily</i> and <i>PhysOrg.com</i> ran stories about research on dark matter in elliptical galaxies by physicist <b>Joel Primack</b>, visiting researcher <b>Avishai Dekel</b>, and their collaborators.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story on the 20th anniversary of the UCSC Women's Center, noting that a new oral history publication features interviews with literature professor <b>Helene Moglen</b> and retired women's studies lecturer <b>Marge Frantz</b>, two of the center's founding faculty members.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Discovery News</i> ran a story about the latest analyses of the Dec. 26 Indian Ocean tsunami, including a report by seismologist <b>Thorne Lay</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Contra Costa Times</i> quoted literature professor <b>Richard Terdiman</b> about an announcement that the University of California will provide thousands of public-domain literary texts to a free online archive.
</p>
<p>
  A story in <i>Science News</i> about earthquake hazards in California included a quote from geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b>.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the debate over intelligent design included quotes from <b>David Deamer</b>, professor of chemistry and biochemistry.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about composers, noting that the work of the late Lou Harrison is archived at the University Library's <b>Special Collections</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/10-24/news.asp "Permalink to news")
