---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3876
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Eva Bertram</b> was quoted in a <i>Business Week</i> cover story about why President Bush's Social Security proposals aren't taking off.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Minnesota Daily</i> covered a guest lecture by social psychologist <b>Tom Pettigrew</b>, who discussed race in the U.S. educational system 50 years after the historic U.S. Supreme Court decision in the case of <i>Brown v. the Board of Education.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Indian Express, India-West</i>, and Britain's <i>A2media.com</i> quoted associate history professor <b>Dilip Basu</b> in stories about the screening of a restored print of Indian director Satyajit Ray's film <i>Pather Panchali</i> to celebrate its 50th anniversary at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival. India's online <i>Screen Weekly</i> also covered the story.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Orin Martin</b>, manager of the Alan Chadwick Garden, was featured in a <i>Boulder</i> (Colorado) <i>Weekly</i> article about changing weather patterns. Martin was one of several farmers whose observations set up an in-depth discussion about agriculture and global climate change.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Atlantic Monthly</i> published a letter to the editor by emeriti professors <b>Bill Friedland</b> of community studies and <b>Ronnie Gruhn</b> of politics, who pointed out differences between President Bush and President Woodrow Wilson. Unlike Bush, they wrote, Wilson "sought global organization through other than military means."
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Anchorage Daily News</i> gave a nice nod to the <b>New Teacher Center</b> in a story about the teacher-mentoring program the Anchorage schools modeled after NTC's work.
</p>
<p>
  Washington's <i>Ellensburg Daily Record</i> ran a story about a keynote address given by history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> for Central Washington University's annual social forum.
</p>
<p>
  Medical anthropologist <b>Nancy Chen</b> discussed the fine points of "desktop dining" with a reporter at the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>, who explored the social and psychological consequences of eating lunch at your desk.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported that associate professors of literature <b>Micah Perks</b> and <b>Karen Yamashita</b> are coordinating UCSC's Living Writers Series, bringing guest authors and poets to campus classrooms.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Postdoctoral researcher <b>Phil Howard</b>'s work on what consumers want to know about the food they buy was picked up by <i>Natural Life</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted the publication of an oral history of former head of special collections <b>Rita Bottoms</b> by the University Library's Regional History Project.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/05-30/news.asp "Permalink to news")
