---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5588
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Film critic <b>B. Ruby Rich</b> of community studies was quoted in <i>Variety</i> about <i>Brokeback Mountain</i>, a new film about two gay cowboys that's due in theaters in December. Rich's article about the film appeared in <i>The Guardian</i> and was reprinted in the <i>Sydney Morning Herald</i>. She was also interviewed by National Public Radio about <i>Paradise Now</i>, a film by Palestinian filmmaker Hany Abu-Assad. Rich wrote a review of that film for the <i>San Francisco Bay Guardian</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of history <b>David Anthony</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the passing of civil rights icon Rosa Parks.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b>'s research on the digital divide received broad play on KCBS Radio and was featured in a page-one story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, as well as in <i>Education Week</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Interim humanities dean <b>Gary Lease</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> in an article about foreign-language instruction at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> tapped economists <b>Michael Hutchison</b> and <b>Mike Dooley</b> for comment about Ben Bernanke, President Bush's choice to succeed Alan Greenspan as chair of the Federal Reserve Board.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Kip Tellez</b> of education was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about Teach for America.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Insidebayarea.com</i> interviewed psychology professor <b>Craig Haney</b> for a story about public opinion on the death penalty.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/10-31/news.asp "Permalink to news")
