---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Physicist **David Smith** was quoted in stories about his research on terrestrial gamma-ray flashes in _New Scientist_ magazine, the _Washington Times_, and online news sites _Discovery News, MSNBC, Science Daily, SpaceRef_, and _Space Daily_.

The _Monterey County Herald_ ran a feature story on women's studies professor **Bettina Aptheker** covering her address as the keynote speaker at the 10th annual Monterey County Women's Multicultural Conference.

Biologist **Glenn Stewart** from the Predatory Bird Research Group was featured in coverage of peregrine falcons nesting on the PG&E building in San Francisco in the _San Francisco Chronicle_, KGO and KTVU television news, and KGO Radio.

**Mary Silver**, professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in stories about harmful algal blooms in Monterey Bay that ran in the _San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey County Herald, Watsonville Register-Pajaronian_, and _Silicon Valley Business Journal_.

Raleigh's _ News & Observer_ quoted American studies professor **Tricia Rose** in an article about the battle to fight highly sexualized and degrading representations of black women in the media.

The _Good Times_ featured **Roberto Manduchi**, assistant professor of computer engineering, and graduate student **Dan Yuan** in a story about their efforts to develop assistive technology for the blind.

Astronomer **Greg Laughlin** was quoted in a _National Geographic_ article about the search for other planets like our own.

Writing lecturer **Conn Hallinan** contributed an editorial piece about foreign policy and China to _CounterPunch.com_.

Astronomer** Stan Woosley** was featured in widespread media coverage of a study by other researchers on supermassive stars, including stories in the _New York Times, Baltimore Sun, Houston Chronicle, Contra Costa Times_, and _Astronomy_ magazine. Woosley was also interviewed on National Public Radio's _Morning Edition_.

The Vanderbilt _Hustler_ ran a feature on a visit by history of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** to Vanderbilt University during its Black History Month celebration.

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-21/news.asp "Permalink to news")
