---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3418
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Psychology professor <b>Craig Haney</b> was quoted by London's <i>Independent</i> newspaper about the effects of long-term solitary confinement in a story about Britons freed after extended confinement at Guantanamo Bay. Haney was also quoted in the <i>Day New London</i> (Connecticut) paper about "death row syndrome," in which inmates give up and relinquish appeals, in its coverage of the postponement of the state's first execution in 45 years.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jurg Diemand</b>, a researcher in the Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, was quoted in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine and UPI stories about his research on dark matter.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> quoted assistant professor of art <b>Dee Hibbert-Jones</b> in an article about an exhibition featuring works of art created out of a trash dump in San Francisco.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the gap between the "haves and have-nots" in Silicon Valley.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Stephen Thorsett</b>, professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about UCSC involvement in planning for a new space-based x-ray telescope.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> featured assistant professor of theater arts <b>David Cuthbert</b> in an article about his role as lighting designer for actor/comedian Billy Crystal's hit Broadway show, <i>700 Sundays.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press singled out UCSC in a trend story about college and university dining halls relying on nearby farms for fresh produce, meat, and dairy products.
</p>
<p>
  Economics professor <b>Nirvikar Singh</b> has penned two opinion pieces for the <i>Financial Express</i> (Bangladesh) about economic reform in India.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Paul Skenazy</b> contributed three book reviews to the <i>Washington Post</i>.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> about a report on ways to offset harm to ocean life by the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant included quotes from <b>Peter Raimondi</b>, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and lead author of the report.
</p>
<p>
  United Press International picked up remarks by economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> about the drop in interest among legislators in the digital divide.
</p>
<p>
  Social sciences dean <b>Michael Hutchison</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the high price of college textbooks and the different prices publishers charge in the United Kingdom and the United States.
</p>
<p>
  National Public Radio interviewed social psychologist <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> about the government ban on propaganda in light of news reports that the Bush administration has contracted with media officials to promote administration policies.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Mateo Daily Journal</i> quoted wildlife biologist <b>Glenn Stewart</b> in a story about the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group's education and outreach program.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page story about the $1.4 million gift by Foundation trustee and alum <b>Kit Mura-smith</b> to benefit library facilities and provide scholarships for re-entry students. Channel 8 also covered the story.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-07/news.asp "Permalink to news")
