---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

American studies professor **Tricia Rose** was quoted in the _Sacramento Bee_ about the origin of pop culture's highly sexual and demeaning images of African American women.

**Stephen Thorsett**, professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about plans for a new space-based telescope.

A story in the Bay Area's _Korea Times_ highlighted **Chancellor Denton**'s attendance at a dinner hosted by the Korean consul gGeneral to brief the Korean media about the upcoming UCSC Pacific Rim Music Festival.

**Michael Riordan**, adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in the _Newark Star-Ledger_ in a story about the merger of AT&T and SBC Communications. Riordan also wrote an op-ed piece for the same paper about the history of AT&T's Bell Labs.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a story in the business section about Glumetrics, a company developing products based on UCSC research led by professor of chemistry and biochemistry **Bakthan Singaram**.

Associate professor of history **David Anthony** was quoted in a _Monterey Herald_ article about the race barriers that black soldiers faced in World War II.

**Bruce Schumm,** professor of physics, was quoted in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about a lecture by Masaru Emoto, who claims that human thoughts and words can alter water molecules.

A _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about the Orchid Society Show featured **Frank Drake,** professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics, who is also an orchid enthusiast and president of the Santa Cruz Orchid Society.

An article in the _Los Angeles Times_ about proposals for desalination plants on the coast included quotes from **Pete Raimondi,** professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology.

Geophysicist **Steven Ward** was quoted in an article about tsunami warning systems in _American Scientist_ magazine.   

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-21/news.asp "Permalink to news")
