---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5642
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Lisa Sloan</b>, professor of Earth sciences, and postdoctoral researcher <b>Lara Kueppers</b> were interviewed about their research on the effects of climate change on California's oak woodlands by KPIX TV, KQED Radio, and KGO Radio, as well as the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>. AP and UPI wire stories about their work ran on numerous web sites, including the <i>San Diego Union Tribune, News Factor Network, Top Tech News, Monsters and Critics</i>, and others.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Mike Males</b> appeared on CNN's <i>NewsNight with Aaron Brown</i> to discuss new research on the findings regarding the drug habits of baby boomers. Males was also quoted by the Indo-Asian News Service, which picked up the story.
</p>
<p>
  <i>India West</i> published a feature story on assistant professor of music <b>Dard Neuman</b>, holder of the Kamil and Talat Hasan Endowed Chair in Classical Indian Music, detailing his plans for promoting Indian music and culture at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  Research by geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was cited in an article about tsunamis in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Robert Fairlie</b> was quoted in a <i>Houston Chronicle</i> story about Latino business startups.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Sandra Faber</b> and physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> were featured in a story about cosmology and religion in <i>Science &amp; Spirit</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> announced that literature lecturer <b>Charles Atkinson</b> has been awarded a $1,000 prize as winner of <i>The Sow's Ear Poetry Review</i> annual chapbook competition.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Deseret Morning News</i> noted that history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> would be speaking at a philosophy conference in Salt Lake City.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/11-07/news.asp "Permalink to news")
