---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5264
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  A crew from the British Broadcasting Corporation was on campus to interview psychology's <b>Mara Mather</b> for a documentary it's producing about aging.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Post</i> quoted American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> in an article about 26-year-old Los Angeles author and former video star Karrine Steffans, who has set the hip-hop world talking with a controversial new memoir.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> picked up on talk that economist <b>Mike Dooley</b> is on the short list of people being considered by President Bush to fill a vacancy on the Federal Reserve Board.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Chip Lord,</b> professor and chair of the Film and Digital Media Department, was quoted in <i>Wired</i> magazine online about the rapid growth of interest in studying film, noting that UCSC's department has ballooned from 100 students to 500 since its inception in 1997. Lord was also quoted in <em>American Quarterly</em> about the touring Ant Farm show.
</p>
<p>
  Scams that target the elderly are on the rise, and psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> has been in the news for his recent testimony about the problem before a U.S. Senate committee and because he has coauthored a book to help seniors protect themselves. Coverage has included a front-page story in the <i>Seattle Times,</i> a story in <i>The Ledger of Florida,</i> as well as items by Reuters, ABC World News Tonight, and online outlets MSN and Australian IT.
</p>
<p>
  An Associated Press story about university-level instruction in organic farming cited UCSC's <b>Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture</b> as among the handful of programs available in the country. The Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture was also the subject of a lengthy feature in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> which picked up on the program's nickname, the "Harvard of Organic Agriculture."
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Pensacola News Journal</i> referred to work by economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> in an article about outsourcing north Florida's tech-related business activities.
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts assistant professor <b>Alma Martinez</b> was featured in <i>AARP</i> magazine where she was hailed as "a tireless advocate for Hispanics in the arts."
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentine</i><em>l</em> quoted <b>Dana Frank</b> of American studies in its coverage of the unions that broke away from the AFl-CIO.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/08-08/news.asp "Permalink to news")
