---
layout: post
title: "Journalists Amy Goodman and Naomi Klein to speak on campus"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: ../art/klein_naomi.05-01-31.jpg
    - caption: "Naomi Klein writes an internationally syndicated column. Photo: Gordon Terris, SMG Newspapers Ltd."
  -
    - file: ../art/goodman_amy.05-01-31.jpg
    - caption: "Amy Goodman will be presented with College Ten's first Ruben Salazar Journalism Award. Photo courtesy of Democracy Now!"
---

Amy Goodman, host of Pacifica Radio's [_Democracy Now!][1]_ program, and Naomi Klein, author of _No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies,_ will each give a free public talk at UCSC in February during two separate events hosted by College Ten.

Goodman will appear at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, February 23, when she will reflect on the life of slain _Los Angeles Times_ reporter Ruben Salazar during a talk about the importance of independent, corporate-free media and the role it plays in democracy.

Goodman began her career in community radio in 1985 and helped launch _Democracy Now!_ in 1996. She is also coauthor of the best-selling book, _The Exception to the Rulers: Exposing Oily Politicians, War Profiteers, and the Media Who Love Them._

Her talk will take place in the Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room. During the event, Goodman will be presented with College Ten's first Ruben Salazar Journalism Award, which honors the memory of Salazar, who was killed during an anti-Vietnam War protest in East Los Angeles when he was hit in the head by a police tear gas canister.

Klein's talk, "War & Fleece: How Economic 'Shock Therapy' Backfired in Iraq," will begin at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, February 16. Klein will discuss the Bush administration's efforts to transform Iraq into a "free-market utopia" and the forces of resistance the reforms unleashed. She will suggest specific actions activists can take to support the struggle for genuine freedom and sovereignty in Iraq.

Klein is an award-winning journalist and the author of _Fences & Windows: Dispatches from the Front Lines of the Globalization Debate._ She writes an internationally syndicated column for the _Nation,_ the _Guardian,_ and the _Globe and Mail._ Klein's talk will also take place in the Colleges Nine and Ten Multipurpose Room.

The public is invited to attend the lectures, which are free, but seating is limited. Ticket distribution for both events will begin at noon on Monday, February 7, in Social Sciences 1, Room 104; limit one ticket per person.

Priority will be given to College Nine and College Ten students with student identification. Ticket distribution will continue until 4 p.m. that day and will take place every weekday from noon to 1:30 p.m. while supplies last. Call (831) 459-1253 for updated information on ticket availability.

Ticket holders are advised to arrive at the events by the scheduled start time; tickets not redeemed by that time may be considered void, and open seats will be filled on a first-come, first-served basis.

Both events will be broadcast live on campus radio station KZSC and cable television (channel 30), and Community Television of Santa Cruz County plans to simulcast Goodman's talk.

The lectures are part of the UCSC Distinguished Visiting Professor Series and are being cosponsored by the UCSC Alumni Association and presented in association with the College Ten class _Social Justice Workshop._ For more information, call (831) 459-1253 or send e-mail to [astuart@ucsc.edu.][2]  

[1]: http://www.democracynow.org
[2]: mailto:astuart@ucsc.edu

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-31/lectures.asp "Permalink to lectures")
