---
layout: post
title: "Intitiative targets excessive drinking"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5470
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a><br>
<a href="mailto:ldonahue@ucsc.edu">Louise Donahue</a>
<p>
  <a name="OLE_LINK11" id="OLE_LINK11">A new campus-community initiative to reduce the consequences of excessive, high-risk drinking and create a safer environment for students and their neighbors is under way.</a>
</p>
<p>
  Called Campus CURB, for Campus and Community United to Reduce Bingeing, the effort is a collaboration among UCSC's Student Health Outreach and Promotion office, other UCSC offices, and members of the community.
</p>
<p>
  This fall, CURB will launch the campaign "Just Say Gnome: Party Small," and work to combat binge drinking on multiple levels, A key effort will be an awareness campaign about the new city ordinance in Santa Cruz targeting out-of-control parties. Tips on hosting parties that do not include excessive drinking will also be widely distributed to students.
</p>
<p>
  The campuswide Good Neighbor Initiative and CURB will combine forces on alcohol-related issues. The student interns of the Good Neighbor Initiative work with students and neighborhood leaders to ease town-gown tensions, and have developed a set of Good Neighbor Guidelines. (See <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/04-25/neighbors.asp">earlier article</a> in <i>Currents.)</i>
</p>
<p>
  Parents of UCSC students are another part of the effort. A letter has been sent out urging them to talk about alcohol and other drug use with their sons and daughters attending UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  Law enforcement agencies both on the campus and in the community will also be enlisted to conduct Drinking Under the Influence checkpoints and other actions.
</p>
<p>
  Additional details on the program will be announced soon, and covered in <i>Currents Online.</i>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, call Jane Bogart at (831) 459-4679 or email her at <a href="mailto:jbogart@ucsc.edu">jbogart@ucsc.edu.</a>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/10-03/curb.asp "Permalink to curb")
