---
layout: post
title: "Staff offices relocating to new off-campus quarters"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5347
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a><br>
<a href="mailto:ldonahue@ucsc.edu">Louise Donahue</a>
<p>
  <a name="OLE_LINK6" id="OLE_LINK6">Relocation of several campus operations to the west side of Santa Cruz is moving into high gear this month.</a>
</p>
<p>
  Approximately 175 employees are expected to move into 2300 Delaware, the former Texas Instruments facility, with another 34 planning to move into University Business Park at 2801 Mission Street Extension and the Staff HR Buildings at 2901 Mission Street Extension during September, October, and November.
</p>
<p>
  The moves are part of UCSC's West Side Relocation Project, which includes consolidation of service centers into several leased and owned buildings on the west side of Santa Cruz. The relocation project, in turn, is part of the campuswide Business and Information Technology Transformation Programs.
</p>
<p>
  "This relocation creates much-needed release space on campus for instructional and research activities. In addition, the moves will create a synergistic hub for Business and Administrative Services and provide space for ITS consolidation" said Linda Flaherty, who is coordinating the moves. Flaherty is the assistant director of capital planning and space management.
</p>
<p>
  Roof repairs, seismic improvements, and upgrades to conform with the Americans with Disabilities Act were among renovations needed to prepare the facility for UCSC staff members, Flaherty said.
</p>
<p>
  Renovation of the office wing is just the first step in UCSC's use of the facility. The next step is to begin the planning process for the future development of the former fabrication facility known as Building C. Currently, the building is being used for storage, Flaherty said.
</p>
<p>
  The moves will involve various campus units and begin this week:
</p>
<p>
  * On September 9, staff members in Purchasing will be consolidating staff into 2300 Delaware and the University Business Services Business Office will also move to that site. The telephone numbers for both will remain the same, and the mail stops will be "Purchasing" and "UBS Business Office."
</p>
<p>
  * Also on September 9, Staff Human Resources will be consolidating staff into the Staff Human Resources Buildings at 2901 Mission Street. The staff members moving first will be those serving ITS and Business and Administrative Services. The main phone number of (831) 459-2009 remains the same; a list of individual phone numbers is available online at <a href="http://bas.ucsc.edu/btp/SHR_bas-its.pdf">http://bas.ucsc.edu/btp/SHR_bas-its.pdf</a>. The new mail stop is "SHR Service Teams."
</p>
<p>
  * Information Technology Services (ITS) will be consolidating staff at 2300 Delaware as part of the Information Technology Transformation Program. Staff members will make the move on September 16 and September 30. Questions may be directed to (831) 459-1660. The mail stop will be ITS Delaware.
</p>
<p>
  * The Financial Affairs Department will be consolidating the Controller's Office, Accounting, and the new Financial Administrative Services Transaction (FAST) Office into 2300 Delaware. The pilot FAST and Accounts Payable will move September 9, with the rest of the FAST staff moving September 30. Financial Information Systems (FIS) staff will move to 2300 Delaware September 16. The remaining Accounting Office staff, Payroll Personnel System Office, Campus Controller's Office, and the manager of Student Business Services staff will move on October 14. Two mail stops will be used. Mail to staff in the FAST Office should be addressed to "FAST Office." Mail to staff in the Accounting Office, including Payroll, Accounts Payable, Extramural Funds Accounting, FIS, PPS, and the Campus Controller's Office should be addressed to "Accounting Office."
</p>
<p>
  <b>Related links:</b>
</p>
<p>
  * <a href="http://bas.ucsc.edu/btp/index.html">The Business Transformation Program</a>
</p>
<p>
  * <a href="http://its.ucsc.edu/transformation/">Information Technology Transformation</a>
</p>
<p>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</p>




</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/09-05/moves.asp "Permalink to moves")
