---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

The _Christian Science Monitor_ quoted international economist **Joshua Aizenman** in a trend story about the growing number of professional and educational opportunities in India. With more Indians choosing to stay home to work and study, India is rapidly pursuing its goal of becoming a "knowledge economy," the paper reported.  

American studies professor **Tricia Rose** was quoted in the _Orlando Sentinel_ about the pervasiveness of pop culture's highly sexual and demeaning images of African American women. Rose also contributed a book review of Keith Boykin's _Beyond The Down Low: Sex, Lies, and Denial in Black America_ to the _Washington Post_.

_Science News_ magazine ran a story about research by physicist **David Smith** on terrestrial gamma-ray flashes.

Associate history professor **Pedro Castillo** was quoted in a _Fresno Bee_ article about a bill passed in Mexico's lower house allowing Mexicans abroad to vote from within the United States in presidential elections.

Economist **Nirvikar Singh** has penned a column about the budget process in India for the Delhi-based _Financial Express,_ one of the top business dailies in India.

**Stephen Thorsett**, professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in an article in the _Mid-County Post_ about UCSC's involvement in plans for a new space-based telescope.

Economist **Rob Fairlie** was quoted in an _Asbury Park Press_ story about the obstacles faced by black entrepreneurs, including lack of access to capital and experience.

Writing lecturer **Conn Hallinan** was quoted in the _Fresno Bee_ about the shortfalls of a media industry dominated by corporate conglomerates.

**Douglas N. C. Lin**, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in a story on _Space.com_ about "orphan planets" wandering through space after being ejected from their solar systems.

The German magazine _Gesundheit_ reproduced data generated by the UC Atlas of Global Inequality for a piece about life expectancy. The atlas is a project of the **Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies.**

The _San Francisco Chronicle_ described a courtroom portrait of history of consciousness professor **Angela Davis** that was featured in a rare exhibit at UC Berkeley's main library of sketches from famous trials.

Sociology doctoral recipient** John Ackerman** coauthored an op-ed piece about Mexico for the _New York Times._

The _San Jose Mercury News_ noted assistant professor of theater arts **David Cuthbert**'s role as the lighting designer for actor/comedian Billy Crystal's hit Broadway show, _700 Sundays_.

In _Family Practice News_, sociology's **Mike Males** discussed a recent study that reported a drop in teen drug use.

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-07/news.asp "Permalink to news")
