---
layout: post
title: "Chancellor's Office moving to second floor of Kerr Hall"
author:  Louise Donahue
post_id: 3467
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  McHenry Library's upcoming construction project is giving a crucial boost to a longtime campus goal: moving the Chancellor's Office to Kerr Hall.
</p>
<p>
  Construction is due to start on the library expansion next fall, with work to begin first in the part of the building now housing the Chancellor's Office, Assistant Chancellor William Hyder said.
</p>
<p>
  "We've all got to move. There is no other option," Hyder said, noting that those moving include vice chancellors not already at Kerr Hall and their support staff, vice povosts and their support staff, special assistants to the chancellor, and the offices of the Ombudsman and Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action. The move is scheduled for completion before fall-quarter classes begin.
</p>
<p>
  "This has been planned for a long time," said Hyder, citing some of the benefits of the move, including consolidation of administrative offices and increased conference and meeting space. "It was planned about 10 years ago but it never happened."
</p>
<p>
  Efforts to make the switch became more intense when Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers directed Hyder to get things moving again this past spring.
</p>
<p>
  Originally envisioned as an $8 million project involving major structural reconstruction at the 32-year-old Kerr Hall, the project has been revised and is now estimated to cost $4 million, with many maintenance projects deferred. Once planned for the fourth floor of the four-story building, the Chancellor's Office will be on the second floor because that location provides more opportunity to consolidate functions, Hyder said.
</p>
<p>
  Hyder noted that approximately $3 million of the total project costs are for actual construction, with the remainder going to various administrative and architectural costs related to a state-supported building. The project will include a new emergency generator, repairs to building plumbing, removal of some walls, waterproofing repairs, and installation of security systems. Complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act will be particularly costly, since both the ground floor and the second floor--and the elevators--will need to be accessible. The existing parking area will also be reconfigured, with tentative plans calling for a total of about 20 parking spaces near Kerr Hall when work is completed.
</p>
<p>
  Hyder praised the imagination and skill of the project's architects, the Oakland-based Glass Associates, Inc. The firm has designed other office and academic facilities at UCSC and other UC campuses. In the process of planning the project, the architects discovered a real diamond-in-the-rough in Kerr Kall: a redwood ceiling that was not being well displayed. Now being restored, the impressive ceiling will greet visitors in the new Chancellor's Office reception area.
</p>
<p>
  "I'm proud of the design," said Hyder. "Donors and members of the public will know it's a Chancellor's Office. It's going to be a welcoming place."
</p>
<p>
  In all, about 51 people will be moving into the second floor of Kerr Hall, which was emptied out as offices were relocated to the Baskin Engineering Building, and the Staff Human Resources PC computer training lab was moved to the basement, Hyder said.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-21/kerr.asp "Permalink to kerr")
