---
layout: post
title: "Academic Senate to welcome new chancellor at February 16 meeting"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3444
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <i>UCSC's Academic Senate will hold its winter meeting on Wednesday, February 16, at 2:30 p.m. at the Stevenson Event Center. Alison Galloway, Academic Senate Chair, has addressed the following letter to members of the Senate outlining issues on the agenda.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues,<br>
</p>
<p>
  At our winter meeting we will have a chance to welcome our new Chancellor, Denice Denton, who will provide us with her vision for the campus. A question and answer period will follow. The full agenda for the meeting can be found at: <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/05Feb/A05feb.htm">http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/05Feb/A05feb.htm</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  Also on the agenda are two annual reports and an oral presentation by the Committee on Faculty Welfare on the Ranch View Terrace housing project. The latter topic is of great interest to us all as the success of the project will determine our ability to continue building faculty and staff housing.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A University Center reception for the Chancellor will follow our meeting, which will be held in Stevenson Event Center. For those attending the Senate Meeting and Reception: Stevenson Lot 110 has been reserved. You can park there for the meeting, and then take shuttles to and from the University Center. Event shuttle service to and from Stevenson will begin at 4:45 and continue until the end of the reception at 7:30. Shuttles will pick up guests from the College Circle when the Senate meeting ends.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Finally, the Long Range Development Plan (LRDP)/Environmental Impact Report (EIR) scoping meeting, which begins the process of assessing the impact of proposed campus growth on our community and environment, will be held that evening, from 6 to 9 p.m. at the University Inn and Conference Center, 611 Ocean Street. If you want to attend, there will be a scheduled break at 7 p.m. to allow faculty from the reception to join the audience.
</p>
<p>
  Another scoping meeting will be held Friday, February 18, from 10 a.m. to noon in Bay Tree Building Conference Room D for the campus community who cannot attend the evening session. The draft LRDP is available at <a href="http://planning.ucsc.edu/lrdp/draft2005lrdp/">http://planning.ucsc.edu/lrdp/draft2005lrdp/</a>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  For disability accommodation, contact the Senate Office to receive this in an alternate format.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sincerely,<br>
  <br>
  Alison Galloway, Chair<br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-14/senate.asp "Permalink to senate")
