---
layout: post
title: "Seaside Company Scholarship focuses on local students"
author:  Louise Donahue
post_id: 3490
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  As owner and operator of the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk, Cocoanut Grove, and other landmark properties, the Santa Cruz Seaside Company's local roots run deep. So when the company decided to endow a scholarship at UCSC, it was only natural to focus on local students.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Many of our employees are graduates of local high schools and many went on to study at Cabrillo College and UCSC," said Charles Canfield, president of the Seaside Company. "As a graduate of Santa Cruz High School myself, I believe it is vitally important to give something back and help out local students who are trying to improve their lives through higher education."
</p>
<p>
  The new Santa Cruz Seaside Company Scholarship will give preference each year to a UCSC student who has graduated from Cabrillo College and who is also a graduate of a Santa Cruz County high school. Established with a $50,000 gift, the award will provide a $2,000 scholarship and will be based on financial need. The scholarship amount will increase as the fund continues to grow.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Locally owned and operated, the Seaside Company employs approximately 1,600 people during the summer season and is the second largest private-sector employer in the city behind Plantronics.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "My family has been living and working in Santa Cruz for generations and the Canfield family has been involved with the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk since the 1930s," said Canfield. "I've been working here since I was 16 years old."<br>
</p>
<p>
  The company already provides $500 college scholarships to 12 company employees--at various institutions--each year and contributes to many charitable groups, including the Boys and Girls Club of Santa Cruz, United Way, Cultural Council, and Omega Nu's Ducky Derby.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "To be able to create a scholarship for local students studying at UCSC is something I'm very proud of," Canfield said. "I'm very fortunate to have received a great education at local public schools as well as the University of Oregon. I want to help ensure that future generations of local students are able to pursue their dreams through education."<br>
</p>
<p>
  In addition to the Beach Boardwalk and Cocoanut Grove, the Seaside Company owns the Boardwalk Bowl, Sea &amp; Sand Inn, Carousel Motel, and various residential/commercial properties in the City of Santa Cruz.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "The Santa Cruz Seaside Company Scholarship will help UC Santa Cruz ensure that our local students who have financial need are able to achieve their educational dreams," said Ronaldo Ramirez, director of development for Student Affairs at UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "By providing tomorrow's leaders with the assistance they need to pursue the education they deserve, this scholarship will continue to pay off for years to come," he added.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>To learn more about the Seaside scholarship or to establish other need-based scholarships at UCSC, please contact Ronaldo Ramirez at (831) 459-3801 or e-mail <a href="mailto:affirm@ucsc.edu">affirm@ucsc.edu</a>.</i>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-28/seaside.asp "Permalink to seaside")
