---
layout: post
title: "Two-car accident injures four"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5398
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  An early-morning head-on automobile accident on Hagar Drive injured three UCSC students on Tuesday, including one whose injuries were severe enough to require a helicopter airlift to a San Jose trauma center. The two other students were transported to a Santa Cruz hospital; the fourth person, not a student at UCSC, was also airlifted from the scene.
</p>
<p>
  The two-car accident occurred shortly after 8 a.m. midway between Coolidge Drive and the East Remote Parking Lot, just above the access road to the Village housing area. Hagar Drive was closed to through traffic until approximately 11 a.m.
</p>
<p>
  The most seriously injured is a 20-year-old male, a College Nine student. He was a passenger in a white Honda Civic driven by a 22-year-old male not believed to be affiliated with UCSC. The vehicle was traveling down Hagar at the time of the accident. The student was airlifted by helicopter to Regional Medical Center in San Jose. The driver was airlifted to Stanford University Medical Center.
</p>
<p>
  Traveling uphill in the other vehicle, a green Honda Civic, were two females, a 25-year-old Oakes student and another College Nine student, age 26. Both of the women were taken by ambulance to Dominican Hospital.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC police believe that the vehicle heading downhill may have been traveling at a high speed just before the accident occurred. The accident was still under investigation by mid-afternoon on Tuesday.
</p>
<p>
  In addition to campus police, personnel from the UCSC Fire Department and Santa Cruz Fire Department, as well as AMR (American Medical Response) paramedics responded to the accident. No information on the extent of the injuries to the four, or their condition, was available.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/09-26/accident.asp "Permalink to accident")
