---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5389
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler</b>, professor of biomolecular engineering, was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> story about the evolutionary history of human chromosomes. Haussler was also quoted in a <i>Science</i> magazine story about research on the chimpanzee genome. UCSC's role in the chimp genome analysis was also mentioned in stories in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, with a quote from postdoctoral researcher <b>Katherine Pollard</b> in the <i>Sentinel</i> story.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Rolling Stone</i> magazine quoted literature professor <b>Marshall Leicester</b> in a feature story about Jerry Garcia and the origins of the Grateful Dead.
</p>
<p>
  In a major story about today's teachers, <i>U.S. News &amp; World Report</i> cited the model of intensive new-teacher support developed by the <b>New Teacher Center</b> as a model for the nation, noting the 88 percent retention rate of graduates of the program. . . . <b>Ellen Moir</b>, director of the New Teacher Center, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the work of the center, which recently received a major infusion of funding.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Thorne Lay</b>, professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a cover story in <i>Science News</i> magazine about research on the Sumatra-Andaman earthquake and resulting tsunami. . . . And geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was featured in a <i>Monterey Coast Weekly</i> story about the threat of a tsunami on the California coast.
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Dana Frank</b> was quoted in the <i>Newport News Daily Press</i> about the difficulty in buying American-made products due to trade agreements and the rising abundance of foreign-made goods.
</p>
<p>
  A story about the Cassini mission to Saturn in <i>Astronomy Now</i> magazine featured <b>Erik Asphaug</b>, associate professor of Earth sciences, and graduate student <b>Lindsey Bruesch</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Social sciences dean <b>Michael Hutchison</b> was tapped by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> for comment about debt and the local cost of housing.
</p>
<p>
  An item in the <i>Guardian</i> newspaper (U.K.) described research on undersea volcanoes by <b>James Gill</b>, professor of Earth sciences, and graduate student <b>Darren Tollstrup</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted Arts &amp; Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> in an article about a new collaborative project with the Cultural Council of Santa Cruz County, funded by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> announced the publication of <b>Paul Ortiz</b>'s new book, <i>Emancipation Betrayed.</i> The same book column also featured professor emeritus of anthropology <b>Stu Schlegel</b>, author of a book about the Teduray villages of the Philippines.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Gabriel Valley Tribune</i> featured Farm apprenticeship graduate <b>Mary Maverick</b> in an article about EarthWorks Enterprises, an urban farm that works with troubled youngsters.
</p>
<p>
  Bookstore director <b>Robert McCampbell</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the high cost of college textbooks.
</p>
<p>
  Groundskeeper <b>Jose Sanchez</b>'s green thumb was the subject of a <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> article about local gardeners who create bits of paradise in their backyards.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC's leadership in French-intensive gardening was front and center in a recent <i>Mother Earth News</i> article, which highlighted Alan Chadwick's creation of what is now the <b>Alan Chadwick Garden</b>.
</p>
<p>
  In a Sunday feature about the local food-and-farm scene, the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> dubbed the <b>Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems</b> the "local granddaddy of slow food." The Center for Agroecology also received laurels in a <i>WireTap</i> piece that appeared on AlterNet about alternatives to the corporate-dominated food system.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i>'s announcement of the new Ed.D. program prompted a flurry of calls from interested prospective students.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/09-19/news.asp "Permalink to news")
