---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

**Sandra Faber**, University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was a guest on National Public Radio's _Talk of the Nation/Science Friday_ for a discussion of the future of the Hubble Space Telescope.

_SeniorJournal.com_ picked up on recent work by psychology's **Mara Mather,** who published research about age-related memory processes that suggest that older adults "accentuate the positive"' in their memories.

**Michael Riordan**, adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in the _Wall Street Journal_ in a story about the rise and fall of AT&T and the achievements of AT&T's Bell Labs.

Agroecology postgraduate researcher **Phil Howard** continues to field media queries about his survey of food consumers, most recently from KSCO Radio.

**Nancy Chen** of anthropology appeared live on a Chicago radio program, discussing biotechnology in China as part of a discussion of modernity in China.

The _San Jose Mercury News_ and _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran stories about the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group's education and outreach program, with quotes from biologist **Glenn Stewart.** KION TV has also contacted Stewart and arranged to cover his upcoming visit to a school in Pacific Grove.

Economist **Rob Fairlie**, who conducted a survey of self-employment rates for the Small Business Association, was contacted by the _Herald News_ of New Jersey for a story about immigrant-owned businesses.

PhD recipient**James Todd** was among the anthropologists quoted in a lighthearted _Washington Post_ analysis of the Super Bowl spectacle.

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies was tapped for comment by the _San Jose Mercury News_ for a story about the widening economic gap in Silicon Valley.

An article in the _Monterey Herald_ on efforts to improve local tsunami preparedness included quotes from geophysicist **Steven Ward**.

The Pajaro Valley edition of the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ ran a front-page story about the completion of a series on the agricultural history of Santa Cruz by the University Library's **Regional History Project**.

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-14/news.asp "Permalink to news")
