---
layout: post
title: "Wellness Center offers help with efforts to lose weight, get fit"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3307
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  If the crowds at the Wellness Center are any indication, more than a few members of the campus community have resolved that 2005 will be their year to get in shape.
</p>
<p>
  Fortunately, the Wellness Center is ready to help, whether with a new "Adopt a Slug" exercise program, a walking club, seminars on exercising at home and beginning a fitness routine, and a wealth of online resources.
</p>
<p>
  On January 18, the Wellness Center will begin the "Adopt-A-Fellow Slug Exercise Mentorship Program."
</p>
<p>
  Under the program, regular exercisers will be asked to adopt their nonexercising coworkers or friends on campus and help them establish a regular physical activity routine. If your buddy completes 20 physical activity sessions (minimum 30-minutes each) within eight weeks, both you and your buddy will receive a t-shirt and be entered into a drawing for a new mountain bike. As an added incentive, each buddy will gain free access to the East Field House facilities during the program.
</p>
<p>
  To sign up, <a href="mailto:randrews@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> Ryan Andrews with your department mailing address to receive an enrollment packet. Those wanting to be adopted as a buddy, or wanting to serve as a mentor should also contact Andrews to be matched with a partner.
</p>
<p>
  Participants are urged to sign up soon so your buddies have more time to complete the program. The last day to begin the mentorship program is February 1.
</p>
<p>
  This program is being sponsored by OPERS, Staff Human Resources, Academic Human Resources, Environmental Health &amp; Safety, Counseling &amp; Psychological Services, and the Odwalla company.
</p>
<p>
  In addition to the exercise buddy program OPERS is holding two seminars on exercise-related topics.
</p>
<p>
  "New Year's Resolutions: Beginning an Exercise Program," is designed for those who may have tried unsuccessfully at various times to begin a fitness program. Seminar topics will include components of a safe fitness routine, strategies for staying consistent, exercise options for those with little free time, and tips for success. The free seminar will be from noon to 1 p.m. on Friday, January 21, in Bay Tree Conference Room D.
</p>
<p>
  "Home/Office Exercise for Busy People," will provide information and demonstrate a quick full-body workout that can be done anywhere. Using your own body weight and simple elastic tubing, the workout will help participants increase strength and flexibility while barely breaking a sweat. The session will be from noon to 1 p.m. on Tuesday, March 8, in Bay Tree Conference Room D. The $15 cost includes an exercise tube and a door anchor.
</p>
<p>
  To sign up for either seminar, <a href="mailto:randrews@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> or call Andrews at: (831) 459-3970.
</p>
<p>
  Another exercise option gaining popularity is the campus walking club. "Anybody can join and all they have to do is call or <a href="mailto:camori@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> me and I will put them on the list," said Cindy Mori, an OPERS recreation program instructor who may also be reached by calling (831) 459-5781. "We have about 50 members to date and I'd like it to double by spring. The club is free and there is no catch--it is up to you."
</p>
<p>
  Two walks are done on the west side of campus and two on the east side. Information on times and locations is <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/opers/Wellness/facultyandstaff.html">online.</a> <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/opers/wellness/facultyandstaff.html"></a>
</p>
<p>
  "Our goal is to get as many new and old members walking or doing something as often as they can," Mori said. "Start slow and just go!"
</p>
<p>
  OPERS also has other options for becoming more fit, including:
</p>
<p>
  <b>Pilates class.</b> This smooth, flowing exercise routine is designed to increase core strength, energy and flexibility as well as improve posture. The four-week mat class, aimed at beginner and intermediate students, will be held on Mondays from noon to 1 p.m., Feb. 7-March 7, at the OPERS Activities Room. The cost is $20 with a Wellness Card, or $40 without. ]To sign up, <a href="mailto:randrews@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> or call Ryan Andrews. (For more on classes, see <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/01-10/brief-recreation.asp">related Currents story.)</a>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Visit the Online Wellness Center.</b> <a href="http://owcucsc.wellsource.com/dh/default.asp">Log on</a> to check out all the latest information about nutrition, exercise, stress reduction, disease management and much more. The web site includes the interactive Personal Wellness Profile, which highlights your current risk areas and provides strategies for improvement.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-10/fitness.asp "Permalink to fitness")
