---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Biologist **Steven Berkeley** was featured in stories about fish populations and fisheries management that appeared in the _Washington Post, San Jose Mercury News, Monterey County Herald, Guardian_ (London), _Irish Independent_, and the Greenwire and Press Association wire service reports.

United Press International and Canada's _Leader-Post_ were among the media outlets that covered research by psychologist **Mara Mather**, who found that older people make decisions differently from younger people.

History of art and visual culture professor **Carolyn Dean** was featured in a _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ piece about an exhibit of pre-Columbian art at the Santa Cruz Museum of Art and History.

Various media outlets ran stories about research by physicist **David Smith** on powerful gamma-ray flashes in Earth's upper atmosphere, including _New Scientist_ magazine, the _Washington Times_, UPI wire service, and a dozen science news web sites, such as _Science Daily, Space Ref_, and _Space Daily_. Smith was also interviewed on KSCO Radio.

Psychology's **Dominic Massaro** was quoted in _Newsweek_'s international edition in a story about how robots can help autistic children understand and cope with the world around them. Massaro's animated computer characters have been used for three years at a school for autistic children in Santa Cruz.

Economist **Rob Fairlie** was quoted in the_ Record_ of New Jersey about the declining rate of immigrant self-employment.

The _Economist_ magazine ran a story about a discovery made by [Transitsearch.org][1], a network of amateur astronomers established by **Greg Laughlin**, assistant professor of astronomy and astrophysics.

Geophysicist **Steven Ward** continues to be quoted in tsunami stories, most recently in the _Miami Herald_ and _St. John's Telegram_ (Canada).

The _Statesman India_ announced that more than 15 original prints of Satyajit Ray films, which have been restored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences through the initiation of the UCSC** Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection**, would be showcased at a summer festival in Calcutta, India.

Agroecology researcher **Phil Howard** has been interviewed about food issues by KSCO Radio, the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_, and the _Register-Pajaronian_.

Research on Parkinson's disease by **Anthony Fink**, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was covered in several medical newsletters, including _Drug Week, Health Business Week, Biotech Week_, and _Life Science Weekly_.

The _Monterey County Herald_ consulted with Chadwick Garden manager **Orin Martin** for tips on controlling rust on roses.

Econ professor **David Kaun** penned a letter to the editors of the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_, refuting the Bush administration's claims that the Social Security system is going broke.

_College and Research Libraries News_ announced the $1.4 million gift from UCSC Foundation trustee **Kit Mura-smith** to enhance the University Library and provide scholarships for re-entry students.

The _Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal_ quoted professor of music **David Evan Jones** in an article about a dinner he attended in San Jose, along with Chancellor Denton, that was hosted by the Korean consul general.  

[**Media Highlights**][2]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][3]

[1]: http://www.transitsearch.org/
[2]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[3]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-28/news.asp "Permalink to news")
