---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5299
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> reviewed Shakespeare Santa Cruz's performances of <i>Twelfth Night</i> and <i>Engaged,</i> noting that they showcased "the ongoing vigor of this annual festival" and "the canny leadership of Artistic Director <b>Paul Whitworth."</b> The <i>Chronicle</i> also quoted Whitworth in a feature story in the "Sunday Datebook" section that included a full-page photo from <i>Engaged.</i>
</p>
<p>
  A major grant from the Moore Foundation to establish a marine microbiology lab at UCSC was covered in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Aptos Times,</i> and <i>Monterey County Herald,</i> with quotes from <b>Jonathan Zehr,</b> professor of ocean sciences, and <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute for Marine Sciences.
</p>
<p>
  History of Consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted in <i>The Age, Australia</i> about her work as a civil rights activist and her appearance at a Melbourne conference.
</p>
<p>
  <b>James Zachos,</b> professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story about climate change that ran in major Canadian newspapers, including the <i>Edmonton Post, Montreal Gazette, Victoria Times Colonist, Leader-Post,</i> and <i>Star Phoenix.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> ran a feature story offering a "behind-the-scenes" look at <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Environment News</i> ran a story about research by biologist <b>Burney Le Boeuf</b> on the effects of ocean temperatures on elephant seal pups.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Raphael Kudela,</b> associate professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in a story about harmful algal blooms in the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> and <i>USA Today.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> extensively quoted Shakespeare Santa Cruz director and theater arts professor <b>Paul Whitworth</b> in a feature about the new summer season.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about unusual conditions along the West Coast this year included a quote from marine biology graduate student <b>Michael Weise.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Good Times</i> ran a story about the 25th anniversary of the UCSC Dickens Project, noting that it was cofounded by literature professor <b>John Jordan</b> and professor of English and comparative literature <b>Murray Baumgarten.</b>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about minorities in the sciences featured <b>Claudia Flores,</b> a graduate student in Earth sciences, and <b>Martha Zuniga,</b> professor of molecular, cell and developmental biology.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Playboy</i> magazine about natural disasters featured asteroid expert <b>Erik Asphaug</b> and tsunami expert <b>Steven Ward.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Stories in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine, <i>CNN.com, Space.com,</i> and U.P.I. wire service about a new study of the asteroid Eros included quotes from <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  Arts &amp; Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the new 2005-06 performing arts season.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about the effects of commercial whaling on killer whales included quotes from biologist <b>James Estes.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reviewed the opening night of <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz's</b> <i><b>Twelfth Night,</b></i> calling it a "splendid, hilarious production."
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about problems in physics and cosmology related to "dark energy" included a quote from physicist <b>Thomas Banks.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Chemistry professor <b>Jin Zhang's</b> research on hydrogen fuel technology was featured in the <i>Aptos Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/08-22/news.asp "Permalink to news")
