---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ published a lengthy story about the growing popularity of **Bob Shepherd**'s accounting classes at UCSC, and the big firms that recruit his students.

Research by professor of chemistry and biochemistry **Anthony Fink** on the antibiotic rifampicin as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease was also covered in a variety of weekly newsletters, including _Aging & Elder Health Week, Biotech Week, Drug Week, Medicine & Law Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Health & Medicine Week, Pain & Central Nervous System Week_, and _Proteomics Weekly._

History professor **Dana Frank** appeared on NPR's _Marketplace_ to discuss the issue of "buying American" during the Christmas shopping season.

Research geophysicist **Steven Ward** has been contacted by numerous media outlets, including the _Washington Post, New York Daily News, Newsweek_ magazine, and local KION TV, regarding the computer simulation he created of the tsunami that has devastated South Asia.

Psychology's **Craig Haney** was quoted in an Associated Press story about jury selection in the Robert Blake murder case, saying research shows that many jurors participate in trials without understanding, or embracing, the presumption of innocence.

Research by professor of biomolecular engineering **David Haussler** and others on the use of computers to reconstruct the genome of a common ancestor of mammals was covered in a variety of weekly newsletters, including _Genomics & Genetics Weekly, Biotech Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Health & Medicine Week,_ and _Lab Law Weekly_.

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ story about the impact of Asian immigrants on the Bay Area. Pastor's work in environmental justice also prompted a call from _AlterNet_ for a story about a report that found that Latinos bear the brunt of environmental health threats in the United States.

Bangkok's _Agence France_ _Presse_ quoted theater arts professor **Kathy Foley** in an article about preserving Thailand's traditional art of puppetry.

A recent _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ story about organic farming tapped the expertise of **Julie Guthman** of community studies.

Researcher **Phil Howard** of the Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems was quoted in a _Tampa Tribune_ article about retail turf wars in the natural foods market.

Community studies major **Katie Lahey** was the focus of a _San Francisco Chronicle_ story about Americans who are in Venezuela to support President Hugo Chavez.  

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-03/news.asp "Permalink to news")
