---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3665
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Michael Loik</b> of environmental studies was featured prominently in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about the ripple effects of this winter's heavy rains.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about <b>Cormac Flanagan</b>, assistant professor of computer science, who won a prestigious Sloan Research Fellowship.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> reported that American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> "boldly confronted some of the people responsible for disseminating misogynistic lyrics" at a landmark conference titled "Feminism and Hip Hop" held at the University of Chicago.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted psychology professor <b>Catherine Cooper</b> in a feature story about "home" and how the word means different things after we move out of our childhood home.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Stephen McCabe</b>, coordinator of research and education at the UCSC Arboretum, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the exceptional amount of rain this year and its effects on plant life.
</p>
<p>
  <b>William Berry</b>, managing director of the University Affiliated Research Center at NASA Ames, was quoted in a story about the future of NASA Ames in the <i>San Jose Business Journal</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>GEO World</i> wrote up the UC Atlas of Global Inequality. The atlas is a project of the <b>Center for Global, International and Regional Studies.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> ran a feature on the new outdoor concert series created by the <b>UCSC Arboretum</b> in honor of the university's 40th anniversary.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/04-18/news.asp "Permalink to news")
