---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3642
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Women's studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> was quoted in a <i>St. Petersburg Times</i> article about the decline of female action heroines in Hollywood.
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was interviewed on KPIX TV News (CBS, San Francisco) about the magnitude 8.7 earthquake off the coast of Sumatra on March 28, three months after a devastating earthquake and tsunami in the same region.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Columbus Dispatch</i> described research by Earth sciences graduate student <b>Brooke Crowley</b> to determine the age of the Sierra Nevada range from isotope analysis of fossil horse teeth.
</p>
<p>
  Research by biologist <b>Don Croll</b> on the effects of foxes introduced to the Aleutian Islands was covered in the <i>Ventura County Star</i> and the <i>Lincoln Journal Star.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Good Times</i> ran a feature on Barnstorm, a new student-run production company established by the <b>Theater Arts Department</b> to help ease the transition for undergraduates from academia to the professional theater world.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an item about a UCSC course taught by television consultant, alumnus, and UC Santa Cruz Foundation trustee <b>Loren Steck,</b> titled <i>Working in TV and Film</i>, noting that theater arts professor <b>Kathy Foley</b> helped come up with the idea for the class.
</p>
<p>
  Music Department lecturer <b>Ray Brown</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the Santa Cruz Jazz Festival.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was featured in the <i>Star-Ledger Staff</i> and <i>Rutgers Daily Targum</i> about a speaking engagement at Rutgers New Brunswick in honor of Women's History Month.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> ran a feature story about a new book, titled <i>In Memorium: Norman O. Brown,</i> about the late UCSC professor emeritus of humanities.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/04-11/news.asp "Permalink to news")
