---
layout: post
title: "UCSC launching all-online job application system"
author: Louise Donahue 
post_id: 5344
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Job-seekers applying for staff positions at UCSC can forget all about filling out forms by hand and dropping them off in the mail. Beginning Tuesday, September 6, the entire application process will be online.
</p>
<p>
  Two free public workshops will be conducted to familiarize prospective applicants with the process. No reservations are required, but space is limited. The workshops will be from 6 to 7:30 p.m. September 15 at the Santa Cruz Public Library, 224 Church St., and from 10:30 a.m. to noon September 24 at the UC Santa Cruz Staff Human Resources Office at 2901 Mission Street Extension, Suite B.
</p>
<p>
  The workshops will include:<br>
  <br>
  * How to use the new online application process<br>
  <br>
  * How hiring units screen applications<br>
  <br>
  * How to increase your chances of getting an interview<br>
  <br>
  * How to address qualifications in your application materials
</p>
<p>
  Applicants experiencing difficulty with the switch from paper applications may stop by the UCSC Staff Human Resources Office from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays, at 2901 Mission St. Extension, Suite B, in Santa Cruz, or call (831) 459-2009. Computers will be set up in the office for applicants to use, and staff members will be available to assist applicants.
</p>
<p>
  Computers are also available at public libraries and local Employment Development Department locations across the county.
</p>
<p>
  The new system is designed to make applying for staff employment at UCSC faster and easier. Applicants will be able to receive instant confirmation that materials have been received and check the status of applications 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from any computer with Internet access.
</p>
<p>
  Other benefits to applicants include:
</p>
<p>
  * Increased search capabilities, which allow applicants to focus on employment opportunities that most closely match their background and skills<br>
  <br>
  * Access to complete job descriptions online
</p>
<p>
  * The ability to attach supporting documents (e.g., cover letter, resume) to applications, retaining original formatting
</p>
<p>
  * The ability to store applications, resumes, cover letters, and other supporting documents in the system for use when applying to other UCSC staff positions
</p>
<p>
  To access job listings or submit an application, go to <a href="http://jobs.ucsc.edu/">http://jobs.ucsc.edu/</a>.
</p>
<p>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</p>




</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/09-05/jobs.asp "Permalink to jobs")
