---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3537
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was interviewed by Telemundo, Channel 48, about U.S. immigration policy toward Latin America.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> cited a book cowritten by American studies professor emerita <b>Judy Yung</b>, <i>Poetry and History of Chinese Immigrants on Angel Island 1910-1940</i>, in an article about Asian American history.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>David Kaun</b>'s letters to the editor of the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the Bush administration's plans to overhaul Social Security prompted KSCO Radio to invite him to discuss the topic during a recent two-hour show.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> quoted <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies in a story about the $6 million Mayfair Improvement Initiative that helped revitalize the San Jose neighborhood.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Hindustan Times</i> noted that women's studies assistant professor <b>Anjali Arondekar</b> was one of 40 Indian academicians teaching in American universities who have written to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to revoke the U.S. visa of Narendra Modi, chief minister of Gujarat, for violation of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.
</p>
<p>
  History department professor emeritus <b>David Sweet</b> was quoted in a <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> article about an American Civil Liberties national drug law reform project that has recently come to Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  A documentary film crew visited campus last week to interview members of the Community Agroecology Network, the Student Environmental Center/Students for Organic Solutions, and <b>Alma Sifuentes</b> of residential and dining services about efforts to offer sustainably grown food and fair-trade coffee on campus.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted in the <i>Daily Princtonian</i> about a lecture she delivered on racism during Black History Month.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>

</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-14/news.asp "Permalink to news")
