---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

Research geophysicist **Steven Ward**, an expert on tsunamis, fielded numerous media calls in the aftermath of the disaster in South Asia. He appeared on local and national TV news programs, including _Dateline NBC_, and was quoted in the _New York Times, Washington Post, USA Today, New York Daily News, Seattle Times, Miami Herald, Palm Beach Post, Whittier Daily News, Newsweek_ magazine, other newspapers, and various online news sites. Ward's tsunami research was also referenced on the TV shows _Extra_ and _Inside Edition_ and in articles in the _Baltimore Sun, Newsday, Los Angeles Times, Contra Costa Times_, _Santa Cruz Sentinel,_ and many other newspapers. He has also scheduled an interview with the Discovery Channel for two upcoming programs on tsunamis.

**Gary Griggs,** professor of Earth sciences, also fielded media calls about tsunami risks on the West Coast and was quoted in the _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ and _Metro Santa Cruz_.

A sharp increase in the number of entrepreneurs in the United States, calculated by economist **Rob Fairlie,** received a lot of attention from the press, including coverage in the _Sacramento Bee, Arizona Republic, Small Business News, Newark Star-Ledger, St. Louis Dispatch, Chicago Tribune, Santa Cruz Sentinel,_ and _Las Vegas Sun._

Assistant arts dean **Keith Muscutt** was quoted in the _Seattle Times_ about the downside of adventurer Gene Savoy, the world's foremost chronicler of a forgotten Peruvian civilization known as the Chachapoya.

**Andrew Fisher,** professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a story in the _Toronto Star_ about his research on the vast amounts of water circulating through the seafloor and the microbial communities that live in this hidden world.

**Manuel Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ story about a new study that found that most Latinos live in neighborhoods where they are not the majority, although the percentage of Latinos who do live in Latino-dominated neighborhoods increased from 39 percent to 43 percent from 1990 to 2000.

The _Santa Cruz Sentinel_ quoted literature professor **Susan Gillman** about the qualifications of UCSC's new chancellor **Denice Denton**.

Research on nerve regeneration by biologists **Yishi Jin, Andrew Chisholm,** and others was reported in _Medical News Today_ and _Photonics Spectra_ magazine.

Anthropologist **Triloki Pandey** was quoted in a _San Jose Mercury News_ story about Hindus who exchange Christmas gifts and have integrated other aspects of the holiday into their winter traditions.

An article in the _Seattle Times_ about the recent oil spill in Alaska quoted biologist **Jim Estes** in reference to the chances for survival of oiled sea otters.

Economist **Lori Kletzer**'s work on manufacturing job losses was cited in a _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_ article about outsourcing that ran on the Scripps Howard News Service and was published by several newspapers.

**David Haussler**, professor of biomolecular engineering, was featured on the NPR programs _Weekend Edition_ and _All Things Considered_ in stories about his efforts to reconstruct the genome of the common ancestor of most mammals.

For a major story about technology in agriculture pegged to the introduction of a mechanical orange picker, the _Los Angeles Times_ contacted sociology professor emeritus **Bill Friedland**, who discussed the social changes brought about by inventions like the mechanical tomato harvester.

The _Khaleej Times_, an English-language daily newspaper published from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, quoted theater arts professor **Kathy Foley** in an article about preserving Thailand's traditional art of puppetry.

The _Monterey County Herald_ profiled Professor Emeritus **Theodore Sarbin** of psychology and criminology, focusing on the months Sarbin spent riding the rails during the Depression, an experience he said shaped his life and work.

History of consciousness professor **Barbara Epstein** was quoted in a _Berkeley Daily Planet_ article about a UC Berkeley professor ousted for his challenges to an increasingly corporate academic culture.

The _New York Sun_ tapped anthropologist **Hugh Raffles** for an article about a flatbed truck accident in Las Vegas that spilled 480 bee colonies on a roadway.

Psychology's **Craig Haney** was interviewed by a Brazilian journalist about U.S. support for capital punishment.  

[**Media Highlights**][1]** provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.**  

  

[Return to Front Page][2]

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights
[2]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-10/news.asp "Permalink to news")
