---
layout: post
title: "message"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3441
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>To:</b> <b>Campus Colleagues</b><br>
  <b>From:</b> <b>Denice D. Denton, Chancellor<br></b>
</p>
<p>
  I'm writing to express my delight at the arrival of my first day as your chancellor. I greatly appreciate the many notes and personal expressions of welcome that I've already received, and I want to thank most sincerely all of you who have extended generous support and advice to date.
</p>
<p>
  Diversity and excellence are great strengths of our campus, and together we will continue to seek and celebrate these two distinctions.
</p>
<p>
  Beginning immediately, I am initiating a "listening tour" of the campus and UCSC's extended community. My goals are to get to know you and to increase my understanding of our opportunities and challenges.
</p>
<p>
  Even before my official arrival, I have benefited from several illuminating briefings with Martin Chemers. We all owe him thanks for his excellent leadership over the past months, and I am particularly grateful for his assistance and welcome to me.
</p>
<p>
  I have also enjoyed meeting with Senate leadership and representative groups of faculty; my transition team that includes students, staff, and faculty; and several local elected leaders. I also was a guest at a small dinner hosted by Silicon Valley CEOs and another hosted by the Korean consul general to discuss our upcoming Pacific Rim Music Festival to be held in April-May 2005.
</p>
<p>
  As I expand my campus and community contacts to broaden my perspective, I look forward to several activities over the next few days. I will:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Host a "media availability" for UCSC student reporters<br>
  * Commence regular meetings with the Staff Advisory Board<br>
  * Participate in the quarterly Academic Senate meeting<br>
  * Advocate for UC Santa Cruz with elected officials in Sacramento<br>
  * Address members of the Sacramento alumni chapter at their annual dinner<br>
  * Speak with UC Santa Cruz Foundation trustees and Alumni Association leaders<br>
  * Advance campus fundraising by meeting with prospective donors<br>
  * Host visiting scholars and attend campus events
</p>
<p>
  So that the wider campus community can view highlights of these activities in these first few weeks, we are creating a <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/administration/chancellor/">web site</a> on which photos and summaries will be posted regularly. I invite you to visit the site, which also includes in the left column a button with which you can contact me via e-mail. I am interested in your thoughts, and I will value your suggestions and ideas.
</p>
<p>
  In closing, I'd like to share with you a story that I also included in my first-day e-mail to our region's alumni and community leaders. Last Saturday, while out enjoying a beautiful day with my brother who was visiting from Texas, I was struck by a sign posted at a local beach. Describing the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, a section of the sign read, "The challenge is to balance recreation, education, research, and commercial uses with preservation of this national treasure."
</p>
<p>
  This statement truly reflects the key challenge that we face. I am inspired and delighted to join a community that so clearly articulates this goal. It is one that we can achieve together, as we build our shared future.<br>
  <br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-14/message.asp "Permalink to message")
