---
layout: post
title: "Banana Slug Spring Fair begins April 15"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3574
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Banana Slug Spring Fair, UCSC's reunion weekend, will offer an array of events for alumni and friends, including reunion dinners and receptions, a talk by psychology professor Craig Haney, a panel discussion featuring graduates from the Class of 1975, a whale-watching tour complete with faculty guide, and even a "Slug Run."<br>
</p>
<p>
  Dozens of events are planned, including:<br>
  <br>
  * <b>All-Alumni Reunion Luncheon.</b> All alumni are invited back to campus to celebrate UCSC's 40th Anniversary, with special recognition for 2000, '95, '90, '85, '80, '75, and '70 alumni. The luncheon will begin at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, April 16, in the College Nine and College Ten Multipurpose Room. Cost is $18. Alumni may <a href="http://www.ucsc.onlinecommunity.com/cgi-any/activities.dll/show?sitename=UCSC&amp;id=62&amp;bid=&amp;template=event_register.htm">RSVP online</a>.
</p>
<p>
  * <b>Alumni Panel Discussion.</b> The discussion, featuring Class of 1975 graduates, will be held upstairs from the College Nine and College Ten Multipurpose Room in the University Center's Bhojwani Dining Room at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, April 16. Panelists will be Philip Brookman, Laurie Garrett, Carol Realini, and Gordon Wiltsie.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * <b>Annual Distinguished Faculty Lecture.</b> Presented by professor of psychology Craig Haney, a national authority on capital punishment, the lecture will follow the luncheon at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday, April 16, in the University Center's Bhojwani Dining Room. Haney has been involved in some of the nation's most high-profile death penalty cases. He is also an expert on conditions inside "supermax" prisons. His testimony has been critical in several landmark court rulings, including a judge's decision about conditions at California's Pelican Bay Prison.
</p>
<p>
  Detailed information about all Banana Slug Spring Fair events is <a href="http://www.ucsc.onlinecommunity.com/cgi-any/activities.dll/show?sitename=UCSC&amp;id=62&amp;bid=&amp;template=event_register.htm">available online</a> or by calling (800) 933-SLUG (toll-free) or locally at (831) 459-2530.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-28/bssf.asp "Permalink to bssf")
