---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 3969
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, was quoted in a story in <i>Newsday</i> about research on DNA extracted from the bones of extinct cave bears.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> of psychology was quoted prominently in a <i>USA Today</i> article about the devastating long-term effects of solitary confinement.
</p>
<p>
  Seismologist <b>Thorne Lay</b> was quoted in an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about the great Sumatra-Andaman earthquake.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Newsweek</i> magazine noted the upcoming <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</b> production of <i>Twelfth Night</i> in an article about promising 2005 summer seasons by respected theater companies.<br>
  <br>
  Associate history professor <b>Pedro Castillo</b> was quoted in southern California's <i>Press-Enterprise</i> about a decision by Univision Network, the most popular Spanish-language broadcast television network in the United States, to add local coverage due to the significant Latino population in the area.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Dan Wirls</b> of politics penned an op-ed that appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the Senate's consideration of a "nuclear option" filibuster. Also in politics, <b>Paul Frymer</b> was a guest on the radio show <i>Marketplace</i> talking about the AFL-CIO.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Paul Skenazy</b> contributed four book reviews to the <i>Washington Post</i>.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>BBC News</i> story about bottlenose dolphins using sponges as tools to help find food included a quote from <b>Grant Pogson</b>, associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> picked up on a recent report by the Public Policy Institute of California about the future of the Golden State, which includes a chapter authored by <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Organic Inc.</i> tapped Farm manager <b>Jim Leap</b> for comment on the organic food industry and the growing role major corporations are playing in the booming sector of food production.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Jason Prochaska</b> was quoted in stories about his research on gamma-ray bursts on <i>PhysOrg.com</i> and <i>Space Daily.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Triloki Pandey</b> was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the local Indo-American community.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Screenindia.com</i> quoted associate professor of history <b>Dilip Basu</b> in an article about the screening of Satyajit Ray's film <i>Pather Panchali</i> on its 50th birthday at the Cannes Film Festival.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomy graduate student <b>Genevieve Graves</b> was quoted in stories about her supernova research on <i>MSNBC.com, Space.com</i>, and <i>RedNovaNews.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Torrance Daily Breeze</i> ran a feature on conductor <b>Kent Nagano</b>, a UCSC alumnus, who was quoted about the positive audience reaction to the preview of the world premiere of <i>Manzanar: An American Story</i> at UCSC's Pacific Rim Festival. The <i>Daily News</i> of Los Angeles also noted the performance.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Optoelectronics Report</i> ran a story about research on optical sensor technology by <b>Holger Schmidt</b>, assistant professor of electrical engineering.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Earth Island Journal</i> about the impacts of wind turbines on bird populations described research by <b>Grainger Hunt</b>, a biologist with the Predatory Bird Research Group.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/06-13/news.asp "Permalink to news")
