---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4029
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  In a personal perspective piece on the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i>'s opinion page, editorial writer Louis Freedberg hailed the work of UCSC's <b>New Teacher Center</b>, saying it is "regarded as the best of its kind in the nation." The piece quoted director <b>Ellen Moir</b>'s admonition that "One of the best things we can do is invest in the early years of a teacher's career."
</p>
<p>
  Astronomers <b>Steven Vogt, Greg Laughlin</b>, and <b>Douglas Lin</b> were quoted in news stories about the discovery of a rocky planet, including stories in the <i>Los Angeles Times, San Jose Mercury News, Minneapolis Star Tribune</i>, UPI and AP news wires, <i>BBC News, CNN.com, MSNBC.com, Discovery News</i>, and <i>Sci-Tech Today</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>James Zachos</b>, professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine and online news sites <i>RedNova.com, Space Daily</i>, and others, which ran stories about his research on ocean chemistry during a period of extreme global warming in the past.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was quoted in an <i>ABCNews.com</i> story about Howard Dean and the media's coverage of Dean's leadership of the Democratic National Committee. The story was picked up by <i>The Frontrunner</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a feature story on 34-year-old history major <b>Martin Smith</b>, one of the oldest UCSC students to graduate this year and winner of several awards for his research on troop resistance to the Vietnam war.
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about the risk of a tsunami on the West Coast, and he was also interviewed about tsunamis on KSBW TV.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about engineering dean <b>Steve Kang</b>, who received a major award for his engineering research and leadership in education.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jason Mark</b>, a member of the Center for Agroecology's apprenticeship program, penned an op-ed about organic food for the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i>. Mark, who is working on a book about food, detailed the role of major corporations in the growth of the organic food industry.
</p>
<p>
  The <b>Engineering 2 Building</b> was featured in an article in <i>Architecture</i> magazine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> wrote up the opening of the <b>Farm &amp; Garden</b>'s market cart, which sells fresh organic produce and flowers at the base of campus every Tuesday and Friday through the growing season.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Acoustic Guitar</i> magazine reviewed Music Department lecturer <b>Mesut Ozgen</b>'s latest CD of folk-inspired classical music, <i>Troubadour</i>, describing his playing as "stunningly versatile and expressive throughout."
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Science News</i> about declining fisheries included quotes from marine scientist <b>Steven Berkeley</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Deborah Abbott</b>, director of the Lionel Cantu Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex Resource Center, was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the gender-neutral bathrooms at the Saturn Cafe.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> reported that <b>Angelica Jimenez</b> has earned a $20,000 Pister Leadership Opportunity Award to attend UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/06-27/news.asp "Permalink to news")
