---
layout: post
title: "Endowed staff position created to care for valuable photo archives"
author: Scott Rappaport
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/haywood_p.06-09-11.jpg
    - caption: "Patrick Haywood Photo: Courtesy of Patrick Haywood"
---

Last month, Patrick Haywood began a new job at McHenry Library as a photo archivist. The position is funded by the Miller and Bunny Outcalt Endowment, which is specifically designed to support a permanent staff archivist dedicated to care for the extensive photography archives housed at UCSC's Special Collections.

While the campus now enjoys the benefits of 16 named endowed chairs, the Outcalt fund provides rare named endowed support for a staff position.

Established in honor of the late Miller and Bunny Outcalt and their lifelong partnership in the field of photography--through a deferred gift of $500,000--the fund recognizes the exceptional collection of photographs held at Special Collections.

"The development team is particularly pleased to have raised private support for this endowed staff position at UCSC," noted Jennifer Svihus, associate vice chancellor of development. "Staff play a key role at UCSC, providing the critical services that support instruction and research, and their work has been heavily impacted by campus growth. It is gratifying to provide enriched assistance to the hardworking members of the University Library staff."

The new photo archivist position will help the library to process collections, inventory, catalog and index photographs, and prepare finding aids for the materials, as well as to appraise the physical condition of the collections and plan for preservation and conservation. The gift also ensures long-term accessibility for the public to enjoy the unique holdings at UCSC.

As a tribute and honor in recognition of the gift, a new Miller and Bunny Outcalt Special Collections Reading Room will soon be created as part of the renovation and expansion plans for McHenry Library.

"We are most fortunate to have a dedicated position to address our historical and artistic original collections," noted Christine Bunting, head of Special Collections. "Working with new technologies, our photo archivist will be able to expand venues for these incomparable resources."

Haywood holds a B.A. in art history from UCSC and an M.F.A. in studio art (photography, sculpture, and electronic media) from Mills College in Oakland. His most recent position was photography studio manager at the California College of the Arts (CCA) in Oakland. He previously worked as a photography instructor for CCA and as the graphic design intern/marketing manager for a Santa Cruz server software company. Haywood is also an adjunct lecturer with the Cabrillo College Photography Department and an independent visual artist.

"I am extremely excited to be here, particularly at this moment during the renovation of the library," said Haywood. "To be a part of the process in making such a valuable and unique collection more accessible to the public is a real treat."

_(Editor's note: In previous publications, the endowment was incorrectly described as the first-ever endowed staff position on campus.) _  
  

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/09-11/staffer.asp "Permalink to staffer")
