---
layout: post
title: "Spike Lee added to Arts & Lectures season"
author: Scott Rappaport
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/lee_spike.150.jpg
    - caption: "Spike Lee Photo courtesy of the Lavin Agency"
---

UCSC's Arts & Lectures has added an appearance by renowned filmmaker Spike Lee to its 2006-07 season. The event will take place on Monday, November 27, at the Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium.

Lee has recently been highly praised for his HBO documentary _When The Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts_\--a moving portrait of New Orleans in the wake of the destruction wreaked by Hurricane Katrina. His longtime editor Sam Pollard noted that Lee's reputation helped get a camera crew into the city's water-logged homes, allowing him to tell a complex story about race, class, and politics that Pollard said has too often been sensationalized or rendered in sound bites. "This was a story that Spike Lee knew he had to tell," Pollard added.

Lee gained national attention in 1986 with the hit independent film _She's Gotta Have It_, a comedy about the many lovers of an independent Brooklyn woman. The film established Lee's reputation as a rising young black independent filmmaker, and his outspoken African American perspective, as well as steady output of acclaimed films, has kept him in the public eye ever since.

Lee's subsequent films continued to tell stories with racial themes, including the Brooklyn drama _Do The Right Thing_ (1989); the jazz-tinged _Mo' Better Blues_ (1990) with Denzel Washington and Wesley Snipes; the interracial romance _Jungle Fever_ (1993) with Snipes and Anabella Sciorra; the biopic _Malcolm X_ (1992) starring Washington and based in part on the book by Malcolm X and Alex Haley; _Summer of Sam_ (1999) with John Leguizamo; the controversial racial satire _Bamboozled_ (2000); and the story of a New York man about to go to prison, _The 25th Hour_ (2002), starring Edward Norton.

"Spike Lee is the most significant African American filmmaker of our time," said Michelle Witt, director of Arts & Lectures. "He has produced compelling and important work about the tragedy in New Orleans."

Witt added that tickets will be available to Arts & Lectures members from September 15 through 28 at the UCSC Ticket Office. Beginning October 1, tickets will become available to the general public at the Santa Cruz Civic Box Office. For more information, call the UCSC Ticket Office at (831) 459-2159.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/09-11/spike_lee.asp "Permalink to spike_lee")
