---
layout: post
title: "Author of 'The Way We Eat' to speak on May 11"
author: Scott Rappaport 
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/05-06/art/singer.06-05-08.jpg
    - caption: "The New Yorker once wrote that Peter Singer 'may be the most controversial philosopher alive."
---

The Philosophy Department and Stevenson College will present a lecture by renowned Australian philosopher and ethicist Peter Singer on Thursday, May 11, at 4 p.m. in UCSC's Quarry Amphitheater.

Singer will speak about his new book: _The Way We Eat: Why Our Food Choices Matter _(Rodale Books; May, 2006). Admission is free and open to the public.

The author of _Animal Liberation_ and coauthor of _Animal Factories_, Singer was named by _Time_ magazine last year as one of 2005's "100 Most Influential People." He is often described as the world's leading ethicist, and _The New Yorker_ once wrote that Singer "may be the most controversial philosopher alive." His theories have set off passionate debates that have been reflected today in arguments about abortion, stem-cell research, and euthanasia.

A professor of bioethics at Princeton University, Singer was the founding president of the International Association of Bioethics, and founding coeditor of the journal _Bioethics_. His works have appeared in 20 languages, and Singer is the author of the major article on ethics in the current edition of the _Encyclopedia Britannica_.

The _Economist_ noted that "Singer's influence extends to the world beyond the ivory tower partly because he writes with such lucidity and quiet passion about genuinely pressing questions." And the _New York Times Book Review_ noted that "No other living philosopher has had this kind of influence."

The event is cosponsored by KUSP, the Environmental Studies Department, and the Forum on the Environment--a new venture at UCSC initiated by Victoria Kamsler, a visiting professor this spring in the Philosophy Department from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.

"The Forum will be videoconferencing in distinguished experts from around the world on environmental subjects," Kamsler noted. "It will meet weekly, and a local faculty member will act as interlocutor with our videoconferenced guests, who will take questions from our audience. The Forum will be podcast, and it has been designated as a pilot project for Media Services Webcasting," she added.

Parking is available at the East Remote Parking Lot for $5 with a free shuttle to the event. For more information, call (831) 426-1774, [vkamsler@ucsc.edu][1].

[1]: mailto:vkamsler@ucsc.edu

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/05-08/singer.asp "Permalink to singer")
