---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4738
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Film scholar <b>B. Ruby Rich</b> of community studies was quoted in the <i>Life</i> magazine cover story about actress Amy Adams. Rich was a juror at the annual Sundance Film Festival.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page story about research on sea lions and other marine mammals led by <b>Daniel Costa</b>, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> was quoted in stories about a recently detected gamma-ray burst in the <i>Baltimore Sun, Monterey County Herald, Biloxi Sun Herald, Bradenton Herald</i>, and <i>Albany Times Union</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> announced the summer lineup for <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</b>'s 25th anniversary summer season amid the redwood groves.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran a story about research on global warming by <b>James Zachos</b>, professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  Findings on the formation of protein fibrils associated with Parkinson's disease from biochemist <b>Anthony Fink</b>'s lab were reported in <i>Biotech Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Proteomics Weekly</i>, and other newsletters.
</p>
<p>
  Virginia's <i>Roanoke Times</i> noted that history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> would be one of several major speakers to appear at Virginia Tech this year in a lecture series that also includes former presidential adviser and ABC News correspondent George Stephanopoulos and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted Shakespeare Santa Cruz director and theater arts professor <b>Paul Whitworth</b> in an article about the festival's 2006 summer lineup.
</p>
<p>
  <i>College and Research Libraries News</i> announced that <b>Virginia Steel</b> was appointed as the new University Librarian at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/03-06/news.asp "Permalink to news")
