---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4544
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  A <i>New York Times</i> article on January 14 featured reaction to reports of Pentagon surveillance at a UCSC campus protest. <b>Chancellor Denice D. Denton</b> and Academic Senate chair <b>Faye Crosby</b> were among several on campus quoted in the article.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Deamer</b>, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was featured in a story in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about research on the origins of life.
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts/dance professor <b>Mark Franko</b> was cited in a <i>New York Times</i> article about Radio City Music Hall's Rockettes.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> did a major story about the <strong>New Teacher Center's</strong> work with novice teachers in the Berryessa Union School District in San Jose, describing in detail the center's successful mentoring program and the longer tenures of teachers who receive support during their first years in the classroom.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor and department chair <b>Leta Miller</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about Ariose Singers, the 16-member chamber choir she founded in 2001.
</p>
<p>
  A study of star formation in galaxies led by astronomers <b>Kai Noeske</b> and <b>David Koo</b> was reported by <i>Space Ref</i> and <i>PhysOrg.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Manuel Pastor</strong> of Latin American and Latino studies coauthored an opinion piece for the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about proposed changes that would undermine public access to information about the release of toxic substances and rollback regulatory efforts to promote toxics reduction.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Metro</i> published a cover story on Robert F. Kennedy Jr., noting that UCSC's Arts &amp; Lectures program was presenting his lecture appearance at the Civic Auditorium. The <i>Metro</i> also ran a story on the Arts &amp; Lectures performance by virtuoso mandolinists Chris Thile and Mike Marshall, along with the <i>Good Times, Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, and <i>Register-Pajaronian</i>.
</p>
<p>
  It's rose-pruning time, and garden writer Tom Karwin of the Monterey County Herald encouraged readers to pick up Chadwick Garden manager <strong>Orin Martin's</strong> primer before grabbing their clippers.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-16/news.asp "Permalink to news")
