---
layout: post
title: "Arts & Lectures hosts Robert F. Kennedy Jr."
author: Scott Rappaport
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/05-06/art/kennedy.06-01-23.jpg
    - caption: "Robert F. Kennedy Jr. will discuss 'Our Environmental Destiny.'"
---

Tickets are still available for the Thursday, January 26, lecture by author, attorney, and environmental activist Robert F. Kennedy Jr. at the Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium.

The event--a featured presentation of this year's UCSC Arts & Lectures lineup--will begin at 8 p.m.

The Santa Cruz lecture will be the only appearance by Kennedy in the Bay Area or Central Coast scheduled for this year. He will speak on the topic: "Our Environmental Destiny."

Kennedy is senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, chief prosecuting attorney for the Hudson Riverkeeper, and president of the Waterkeeper Alliance. He is also a clinical professor and supervising attorney at Pace University School of Law's Environmental Litigation Clinic, and cohost of "Ring of Fire" on _Air America Radio_. Earlier in his career, Kennedy served as assistant district attorney in New York City.

"Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s appearance underscores Arts & Lectures' commitment to bringing some of the leading visionaries of our time to Santa Cruz," noted Michelle Witt, director of Arts & Lectures. "His message is one of deep significance for the future of our natural environment, and, ultimately, for each one of us."

A graduate of Harvard University, Kennedy studied at the London School of Economics, received his law degree from the University of Virginia Law School, and a master's degree in environmental law from Pace University School of Law.

Kennedy is the author of the _New York Times_ bestseller _Crimes Against Nature_ (2004), _The Riverkeepers_ (1997), and _Judge Frank M. Johnson, Jr: A Biography_ (1977). His articles have appeared in the_ New York Times, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, Wall Street Journal, Newsweek, Rolling Stone, Atlantic Monthly, Esquire, The Nation, Outside Magazine, Village Voice_, and many other publications.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-23/kennedy.asp "Permalink to kennedy")
