---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6401
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Marcia Ochoa</b> of community studies was featured in <i>Ultimas Noticias</i>, a major Caracas daily newspaper. She was in Venezuela to deliver the keynote address during a recent conference.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC researchers are well represented in the December issue of <i>Sky &amp; Telescope</i> magazine. The lead news story features new research on distant galaxies by astronomers <b>Garth Illingworth</b> and <b>Rychard Bouwens</b>, while astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> is quoted in two other news stories on supernovae and gamma-ray bursts. The cover story is an article on cosmology by physicist <b>Anthony Aguirre</b>, who is featured in a video interview on the magazine's <a href="http://skytonight.com/skytel">web site</a>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Garth Illingworth</b> was also featured in a front-page story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the Hubble Space Telescope.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted <b>David Wellman</b> of community studies in its coverage of a $2.7 million settlement of a racial harassment lawsuit filed by a firefighter. Wellman was hired by the firefighter's attorney to review department records of discrimination complaints.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>New York Times</i> story about the Hubble Space Telescope included a quote from astronomer <b>Sandra Faber</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Brown Childs</b> of sociology was featured in an interview by the Pacific Radio Network's "Informed Dissent Election Special Program," during which he discussed the impact of grassroots transcommunal cooperation among diverse communities and organizations in election year mobilizations.
</p>
<p>
  Eureka's <i>Times-Standard</i> ran a story about an appearance by history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> at Humboldt State University as one of the keynote speakers of the campus's Dialogue on Race.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Birder's World</i> magazine features a story about the sooty shearwater migrations documented by biologist <b>Scott Shaffer</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Times</i> reviewed the recent book by physicists <b>Bruce Rosenblum</b> and <b>Fred Kuttner</b>, <i>The Quantum Enigma</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of literature <b>Rob Wilson</b> was quoted in a <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> feature about his participation in a Veterans Day poetry reading and the tradition of antiwar poetry in the United States.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/11-13/news.asp "Permalink to news")
