---
layout: post
title: "Education prof Judith Scott recognized for service to public schools"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/05-06/art/scott_judith.150.jpg
    - caption: "Judith Scott's work aims to boost the reading skills of nearly 1,000 fourth graders. Photo: Jennifer McNulty"
---

Judith A. Scott, associate professor of education, will receive the 2006 John Chorlton Manning Public School Service Award from the International Reading Association (IRA).

The award recognizes a professor of reading education who has demonstrated an outstanding commitment to public education. It will be presented May 3 in Chicago during the association's annual convention. The award includes a $10,000 prize.

Scott recently launched a three-year $1.4 million research project that will boost the reading skills of nearly 1,000 fourth graders in Santa Cruz and Santa Clara Counties.

Established in 2004, the award honors the work of John Chorlton Manning, a professor emeritus of curriculum and instruction at the University of Minnesota. The award is intended to encourage and support the improvement of public education by recognizing the importance of integrating teacher preparation, professional development, and related research with the work of public schools, classrooms, teachers, and students.

Professors of reading education must have demonstrated their commitment to public education and spent significant time working with public school teachers and their students in classrooms, demonstrating effective approaches and techniques shown to improve reading instruction.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/04-10/scott.asp "Permalink to scott")
