---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6427
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>James Zachos</b>, professor of Earth and planetary sciences, was quoted in a <i>New Yorker</i> magazine article about the effects of carbon dioxide emissions on ocean chemistry.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Dane Archer</b>, an expert on nonverbal communication, was featured in a <i>New York Times</i> article about the touchy issue of personal space--those invisible zones people create around themselves to avoid intimacy. Archer discussed several of his research projects and weighed in on important cultural differences in preferences for personal space.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Nathaniel Mackey</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> front-page story announcing that he won the 2006 National Book Award in poetry for his collection, <i>Splay Anthem</i>. His award was cited in newspapers throughout the country, including the <i>New York Times, San Francisco Chronicle, Los Angeles Times, Chicago Tribune, Philadelphia Inquirer, Baltimore Sun</i>, and <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page story about the potential local impacts of climate change, focusing on research led by <b>Lisa Sloan</b>, professor of Earth and planetary sciences, and also featuring biologists <b>Mark Carr</b> and <b>Pete Raimondi</b>.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was interviewed on National Public Radio's <i>All Things Considered</i> program about the legacy of blues singer Mamie Smith.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Loik</b> of environmental studies was featured in a lengthy <i>Contra Costa Times</i> article about how gardens can incorporate the Golden State's water woes into their landscaping plans. Loik also appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about <b>Lisa Sloan</b>'s work on how climate change could impact the central coast.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Mary Silver</b>, professor of ocean sciences, was featured in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about red tides and whether they affect surfers.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler</b>, professor of biomolecular engineering, was quoted in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the use of DNA analysis to study human evolution.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jonathan Zehr</b>, professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in a story about the microbial world that ran in various McClatchy newspapers, including the <i>Charleston Gazette, Kansas City Star</i>, and <i>Minneapolis Star Tribune</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Research by geophysicists <b>Robert Coe</b> and <b>Gary Glatzmaier</b> on reversals of Earth's magnetic field was the subject of a story in <i>Discovery News</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Buffalo News</i> ran an article about biologist <b>Scott Shaffer</b>'s research on the migrations of sooty shearwaters.
</p>
<p>
  Feminist studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> was featured in an extensive cover story in <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> about her new memoir, <i>Intimate Politics</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was featured in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about Crescent City's vulnerability to tsunamis.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/11-27/news.asp "Permalink to news")
