---
layout: post
title: "Reminder: Comment period for LRDP's Draft EIR ends on January 11"
author: Jim Burns 
post_id: 4504
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The period of time in which the public can submit comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Report for the campus's proposed Long Range Development Plan will end at 5 p.m. on Wednesday, January 11.
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor Denton announced in late November that UCSC was extending the public-comment period to January 11 in response to a request made by the City of Santa Cruz. "We greatly value our partnership with the City of Santa Cruz and have decided to further augment the public comment period to accommodate the City's request," the chancellor said. "We understand that there is a turnover in the City's planning staff, and we want to be certain that the City has enough time to review this important document."
</p>
<p>
  She also added that "by nearly doubling the amount of time legally required, we want to make it clear that the university welcomes and values comments from everyone in our community."
</p>
<p>
  The extension added 23 days to the comment period, for a total of 83 days. The legal minimum, specified by the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), is 45 days.
</p>
<p>
  The comment period officially ends at 5 p.m. on January 11, 2006. Written comments may be e-mailed, mailed, or hand-delivered to UCSC anytime before the deadline.
</p>
<p>
  UC Santa Cruz also held two public hearings on the Draft EIR in November at which oral and written comments were accepted.
</p>
<p>
  For detailed information on accessing the Draft EIR and for details on how to submit a comment, please go to the project web site at: <a href="http://lrdp.ucsc.edu">lrdp.ucsc.edu.</a>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-09/lrdp.asp "Permalink to lrdp")
