---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4912
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <strong>Craig Haney</strong> of psychology fielded a call from the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about overcrowding in the California prison system and was interviewed by National Public Radio for a story about supermaximum-security prisons.
</p>
<p>
  Postdoctoral researcher <strong>Myra Finkelstein</strong> was interviewed on the CBC Radio program <i>Quirks and Quarks</i> about her research on increasing levels of environmental contaminants in albatrosses, and her findings were also reported by <i>Space Daily</i> online news.
</p>
<p>
  Politics professor <strong>Dan Wirls</strong> penned an op-ed for the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> that responded to media reports that the Bush administration is gearing up to attack Iran.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <strong>Chris Connery</strong> was quoted in a Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> feature story about former U.S. ambassador Joseph Wilson and his UCSC visit to headline a teach-in titled the "The War on Terror: A Credible Threat." <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> also ran a feature story on the event. Feminist studies professor <strong>Bettina Aptheker</strong> and politics professor <strong>Daniel Wirls</strong> were interviewed on two KZSC radio programs about the teach-in.
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group and program manager <strong>Glenn Stewart</strong> were featured in stories about the peregrine falcons being monitored via webcam in San Francisco, including a story on KNTV (Channel 11) and articles in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> and the Meriden (CT) <i>Record-Journal.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Gary Griggs,</strong> professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about mud slides caused by heavy rains.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Rob Fairlie</strong> was interviewed by KION-TV about the digital divide.
</p>
<p>
  Articles on global warming from <i>Scientific American</i> and Inter Press Service News Agency included quotes from <strong>James Zachos</strong> and <strong>Gary Griggs,</strong> both professors of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  New Teacher Center Director <strong>Ellen Moir</strong> was featured in a Waterloo Cedar Falls (Iowa) <i>Courier</i> article about the center's mentoring program for new teachers
</p>
<p>
  Physics professor <strong>Joel Primack</strong> and his wife, lecturer <strong>Nancy Abrams,</strong> were featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about their new book on cosmology.
</p>
<p>
  Stevenson College provost and philosophy professor <strong>Ellen Suckiel</strong> contributed an op-ed piece to the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the college's response to cases of racist graffiti at UCSC. She was also quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about a campus lecture on stem cell ethics.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about physicist <strong>Michael Dine,</strong> who was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/04-24/news.asp "Permalink to news")
