---
layout: post
title: "Astronomer Joseph Miller receives Berkeley Medal and UC Citation of Excellence"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/miller_joe.200.jpg
    - caption: "Joseph Miller received the UC Berkeley Medal and the UC Citation of Excellence at a dinner in his honor. In the background is Larry Coleman, UC vice provost for research. Photo: Barbara Hoversten"
---

UC Berkeley has awarded its highest honor, the Berkeley Medal, to Joseph Miller, professor of astronomy and astrophysics. Miller, who served as director of UC Observatories/Lick Observatory for 14 years before stepping down last year, also received the UC Citation of Excellence. Both awards were presented at a dinner in Miller's honor on October 20.

George Breslauer, executive vice chancellor and provost at UC Berkeley, presented Miller with the Berkeley Medal. It is bestowed on "individuals of exceptionally distinguished achievements whose work or contributions to society illustrate the ideals of the University and contribute to its goals, and whose careers have manifestly benefited the public well beyond the demands of tradition, rank, or direct service to the University." Previous recipients of this award include Herman Wouk, Francois Mitterrand, Glenn Seaborg, Gordon Moore, and Bill Clinton.

UC vice provost for research Larry Coleman presented Miller with the UC Citation of Excellence.

Miller served as director of UCO/Lick from 1991 to 2005. His research interests include quasars and active galactic nuclei, focusing on their relationships with the surrounding environment and the nature of their host galaxies. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1994 and served as chair of the AURA Coordinating Council of Observatory Research Directors from 1997 to 1999.

Miller earned his B.A. in astronomy and physics from UCLA and his M.S. and Ph.D. in astronomy from the University of Wisconsin. He joined the UCSC faculty in 1967.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/10-30/miller.asp "Permalink to miller")
