---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4561
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> ran a story about research by Earth scientists <b>Erik Asphaug, Quentin Williams</b>, and postgrad researcher <b>Craig Agnor</b> on the role of hit-and-run collisions in planet formation. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also ran a story about their research.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology professor <b>Avril Thorne</b>'s research on autobiographical memory is featured in an article in <i>Psychology Today</i>.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness and women's studies professor <b>Angela Davis</b> appeared on <i>Democracy Now</i> to discuss the California execution of Stanley Tookie Williams.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Pearse</b>, professor emeritus of biology, was featured in a front-page story in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> on the effects of global warming on the California coast (the first of a three-part series).
</p>
<p>
  <i>Time</i> magazine quoted sociology professor <b>Craig Reinarman</b> in a story about drug use among baby boomers.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Brown Childs</b> of sociology appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program to discuss his new book, <i>Hurricane Katrina</i>, which includes essays by a number of UCSC faculty and affiliates.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology instructor <b>Mike Males</b> penned an opinion piece for the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about teen suicide, noting that teens in the San Francisco Bay Area have one of the lowest suicide rates of any population in the United States, down dramatically since 1970.
</p>
<p>
  Alan Chadwick Garden Manager <b>Orin Martin</b> was quoted in the <i>Waldoboro</i> (Maine) <i>Village Soup</i> about changing weather patterns.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Seattle Times</i> ran a column about U.S. immigration policy that relied heavily on the insights of <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies, who described the "catch-22" for would-be migrants who face the prospect of years of bureaucratic delay if they apply for legal entry or the threat of deportation if they enter the country illegally.
</p>
<p>
  Professor Emeritus <b>Bill Domhoff</b> of psychology was tapped for his expertise on dreams for a story that appeared in the <i>Charlotte Observer</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> ran a story about <b>Todd Newberry</b>, professor emeritus of biology, and his new book, <i>The Ardent Birder</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Contra Costa Times</i> ran a story about the <b>New Teacher Center</b>'s work with novice teachers. The <i>Chicago Sun-Times</i> also featured the New Teacher Center in a column coauthored by Richard Riley, former U.S. secretary of education, about the urgent need to keep new teachers working in the profession.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Federico Ravenna</b>'s participation in an Allied Social Science Associations seminar was covered by <i>Main Wire</i>.
</p>
<p>
  In a story about the significance of race among the generation dubbed "millennials," the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> quoted <b>Pamela Perry</b> of community studies, who has studied the racial identities of high school students.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted associate professor of literature <b>Christopher Connery</b> in a story on a conference hosted by UCSC's Center for Cultural Studies about Hurricane Katrina and New Orleans. The article also noted a photo exhibit featured at the conference by assistant professor of art <b>Lewis Watts</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>India Business Standard</i> noted that UCSC's <b>Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection</b> has successfully restored 15 of the late Indian director's films.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz</i> <i>Good Times</i> ran a cover story on the Robert F. Kennedy Jr. lecture presented by UCSC's <b>Arts &amp; Lectures</b> program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-23/news.asp "Permalink to news")
