---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5145
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> and his wife and coauthor <b>Nancy Abrams</b> have just returned from a two-month book tour, during which they did radio interviews on WGN (Chicago), WNYC (New York), and National Public Radio, as well as the PBS TV talk show <i>Between the Lines</i>. Their new book (<i>The View from the Center of the Universe</i>) was chosen for NPR book critic Alan Cheuse's Summer Reading Selections for 2006 and was featured on the cover of the literary journal <i>Missouri Review.</i>
</p>
<p>
  India's <i>The Statesman</i> quoted associate professor of history <b>Dilip Basu</b> in an article about the role of UCSC's Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection (Ray FASC) in the search for <i>Sikkim</i>, a lost documentary made by the renowned Indian film director.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erik Asphaug</b>, associate professor of Earth sciences, was interviewed on NPR's <i>All Things Considered</i>, about a Japanese study of the asteroid Itokawa. Asphaug was also quoted in stories about the asteroid in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine and <i>Scientific American.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies fielded a call from a reporter with <i>California Connected</i>, a weekly news magazine program produced by four PBS television stations. Guthman discussed organic agriculture in California.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of literature and Cowell provost <b>Tyrus Miller</b> was quoted in <i>Delo</i>, the main daily paper of Slovenia, following a conference at the University of Primorska in Koper titled "Visual Arts After Postmodernism."
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Rocky Mountain News</i> ran a story about <i>Far from the Madding Gerund</i>, a new book by linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> and Mark Liberman of the University of Pennsylvania, featuring some of the best posts from the blog <a href="http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/%7Emyl/languagelog/">Language Log</a>.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Daniel Costa</b> was interviewed by KION TV (Ch. 46) about Costa Spur and Terrie Bluff, the Antarctic sites named in honor of him and fellow biologist <b>Terrie Williams</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Graduate student <b>Alex Hutko</b> was featured in a <i>Mid-County Post</i> article about his research with seismologist <b>Thorne Lay</b> on subducted slabs of the Earth's crust.
</p>
<p>
  Research on Saturn's moon Enceladus by <b>Francis Nimmo</b>, assistant professor of Earth sciences, was covered by <i>the Santa Cruz Sentinel, CNN.com, Discovery News, Space Daily, Astrobiology</i> magazine, <i>Agence France Presse</i>, and <i>Chinadaily.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Barry Sinervo</b>'s research on the evolution of altruism in side-blotched lizards was featured in an article in <i>Science News</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>James Estes</b> was quoted in a story about California kelp forest ecosystems in <i>Science News</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/06-12/news.asp "Permalink to news")
