---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6308
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> of psychology appeared on NPR's <i>Talk of the Nation</i> program to discuss the impact of supermax prisons on the people confined in them. His appearance followed an interview he did with PBS for a documentary called <i>Home Grown</i> about coping mechanisms used by prisoners, including religion and gangs, to survive in prison.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> ran a feature review of <i>Intimate Politics</i>, a new book by <b>Bettina Aptheker</b>, professor of feminist studies and history, describing it as "a stunning new memoir."
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Sofie Salama</b>'s genetics research was mentioned in a <i>Time</i> magazine article about the differences between humans and chimpanzees.
</p>
<p>
  Research on distant galaxies by astronomer <b>Rychard Bouwens</b> was covered in the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Dane Archer</b> was quoted in a widely published article about men and their favorite chairs. The <i>Albany Times Union</i> article appeared in many other papers, including the <i>Chicago Tribune, Toronto Star</i>, <i>Times Colonist</i>, and <i>Gazette</i> of Montreal.
</p>
<p>
  An article about milk that quoted sociology's <b>Melanie Dupuis</b> continues to make the rounds, appearing recently in the New Orleans <i>Times-Picayune</i> and <i>Houston Chronicle</i>.
</p>
<p>
  A wildlife column in the <i>Charleston Gazette</i> described research on the migrations of sooty shearwaters led by biologist <b>Scott Shaffer</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> and <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal</i> were among the publications that covered the news that psychology professor <b>Dominic Massaro</b> received a coveted tech award from the San Jose's Tech Museum of Innovation.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Harry Noller</b>'s research on the cellular protein factories called ribosomes was covered in <i>Biotech Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Health and Medicine Week</i>, and other newsletters.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology professor emeritus <b>Bill Domhoff</b> appeared in <i>USA Today</i>'s Cyberspeak Q&amp;A column, responding to reader questions about dreams.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was quoted by the <i>Washington Post</i> in an article about investment fraud.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Aptos Times</i> ran stories about botanist <b>Jean Langenheim</b>, who has received two major awards recently, and geologist <b>Gary Griggs</b>, who has published a new book about the Santa Cruz coast.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> published an extensive interview with Amartya Sen in anticipation of his appearance as guest speaker for the sixth annual Sidhartha Maitra Memorial Lecture, presented by UCSC's <strong>Humanities Division</strong> and the <strong>Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  <i>J</i>, a northern California Jewish newspaper, ran an article about physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> and his wife Nancy Abrams, whose latest book is <i>The View from the Center of the Universe.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Times-News</i> of Twin Falls, Idaho, tapped politics professor <b>Dan Wirls</b> for comment in a story about tapering state funds for homeland security.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/10-09/news.asp "Permalink to news")
