---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4492
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  A request by <b>Chancellor Denice D. Denton</b> and <b>Campus Provost David S. Kliger</b> that federal elected officials investigate the alleged secret monitoring on college campuses, including a protest of military recruiters at UCSC last spring, was covered by numerous media outlets, including the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>. (A San Jose congresswoman, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, subsequently asked the inspector general of the Department of Defense to investigate whether the Pentagon overstepped legal bounds in gathering domestic intelligence and maintaining a database on U.S. residents.) The <i>Sentinel</i> also featured <b>Chancellor Denton</b> in a year-end series the newspaper published on 2005 newsmakers.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>New York Times</i> travel story about Santa Cruz included plugs for the <b>UCSC Arboretum</b> ("glorious collection of gardens, which are a magnet for hummingbirds") and the <b>Seymour Marine Discovery Center</b> ("this superb small aquarium offers a peek at Monterey Bay's exotic animals").
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of film and digital media <b>L. S. Kim</b> was quoted in a <i>Chicago Tribune</i> article about how Hollywood films reinforce stereotypes of Asian women.
</p>
<p>
  In an article in the <i>Lawrence Kansas Journal World</i>, sociologist <b>Craig Reinarman</b> said the disparity in penalties for those convicted of using crack cocaine and powder cocaine have more to do with racism than pharmacology.
</p>
<p>
  New Teacher Center director <b>Ellen Moir</b> discussed the importance of mentoring and on-the-job training for new teachers in articles that appeared in the <i>Rochester Democrat</i> and <i>Cincinnati Enquirer,</i> among other newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  Research on biochemical pathways involved in metabolism and body weight control from the lab of <b>Glenn Millhauser</b>, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was covered in <i>Biotech Week, Life Science Weekly, Health &amp; Medicine Week, Obesity &amp; Diabetes Week</i>, and other weekly newsletters.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-02/news.asp "Permalink to news")
