---
layout: post
title: "Margaret Delaney receives Outstanding Faculty Award"
author: Tim Stephens
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/delaney_margaret.150.jpg
    - caption: "Margaret Delaney Photo: Tim Stephens"
---

Margaret Delaney, professor of ocean sciences, has received the 2005-06 Outstanding Faculty Award from the Division of Physical and Biological Sciences. This annual award recognizes faculty members who have provided outstanding contributions in the areas of research, teaching, and service to the campus and to the community.

Delaney is renowned for her research in the fields of paleoceanography and marine geochemistry. She is a fellow of the American Geophysical Union and was recently named as one of four inaugural fellows of the Oceanographic Society.

Delaney has made major contributions to the Ocean Drilling Program and its successor, the International Ocean Drilling Program. She is currently chair of the Program Advisory Committee for the building of the new Scientific Ocean Drilling Vessel, a $115 million dollar international program considered the ocean science equivalent of the Hubble Space Telescope.

At UCSC, Delaney has served as vice chair of the Academic Senate, interim campus provost and executive vice chancellor, and chair of the Department of Ocean Sciences. As chair of ocean sciences, Delaney wrote the department's strategic plan, hired many new faculty members, and implemented the Ph.D. program.

Delaney is also a popular teacher at both undergraduate and graduate levels. She consistently receives outstanding evaluations from her students, and many of her graduate students have gone on to receive prestigious fellowships.

"Throughout Dr. Delaney's career as an oceanographer, she has conducted groundbreaking research, provided outstanding teaching on all levels, and contributed exemplary service to the paleoceanographic and marine geology communities as well as our campus," said Stephen Thorsett, dean of physical and biological sciences, in a letter announcing the award.

Delaney received her B.S. in chemistry from Yale University and her Ph.D. in oceanography from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. She joined the UCSC faculty in 1983.
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/10-30/delaney.asp "Permalink to delaney")
