---
layout: post
title: "NASA/UARC team wins NASA Software of the Year Award"
author: Tim Stephens
post_id: 6167
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  A team of researchers at NASA Ames Research Center and the University Affiliated Research Center (UARC) has received the NASA Software of the Year Award for 2006. The researchers are being recognized for their development of the Future Air traffic management Concepts Evaluation Tool (FACET), which models the National Airspace System for both research and operational use.
</p>
<p>
  "This award is a clear example of the benefits of the UARC partnership," said Banavar Sridhar, leader of the FACET team and chief of the Automation Concepts Research Branch at NASA Ames.
</p>
<p>
  Principal scientist and task manager Kapil Sheth leads the UARC team of scientists and engineers working closely with NASA researchers to develop the FACET software. Software engineer Daniel Mulfinger and principal scientist Gano Chatterji are the other UARC members of the award-winning team.
</p>
<p>
  FACET is a key component of NASA's overall air traffic management research effort, one of many NASA programs supported by UARC, a partnership between UCSC and NASA Ames Research Center. The overall goal of NASA research in air traffic management is to contribute to the development of the Next Generation Air Transportation System and provide decision-support tools that will help the Federal Aviation Administration and airline personnel operate today's system more efficiently.
</p>
<p>
  "The UARC is honored to be part of this prestigious recognition, and we are especially proud of Kapil Sheth and his team, who have been so committed to the development, enhancement, demonstration, and distribution of FACET for the benefit of all as a tool for improving the National Airspace System," said UARC associate director Larry Hogle.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/08-14/software.asp "Permalink to software")
