---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5036
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies hit the media jackpot when her work was featured in a <i>New Yorker</i> magazine article about organic agriculture.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Barry Sinervo</b> spent a day in the field with David Attenborough and a BBC TV crew for an episode of a forthcoming documentary series on reptiles. Sinervo's research on side-blotched lizards was also covered in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Metro Santa Cruz</i>, and <i>Innovations Report</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> has been in demand lately, fielding calls from National Public Radio on the psychological effects of supermax prisons and from <i>Salon.com</i> on the nature of death penalty decision making by juries.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> featured <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies in a story about water reclamation, which prompted a lengthy interview on the same topic on the Los Angeles public radio program <i>Which Way LA</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <b>New Teacher Center</b> got a nice nod on the <a href="http://www.civilrights.org/">civilrights.org</a> web site, which ran a story about the center's work with New York City schools. KCBS TV also covered the New Teacher Center's latest grant for work with the Ravenswood City School District in East Palo Alto.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> quoted assistant professor of theater arts <b>Patty Gallagher</b> in an article about actor/comedian Martin Short and his new one-man show "Fame Becomes Me."
</p>
<p>
  Journalism lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> contributed a piece to <i>South Asia Times</i> online about the growing chasm in India between poor and wealthy families.
</p>
<p>
  An article on California sea otters in the <i>Mid-County Post</i> included quotes from biologist <b>Jim Estes</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> ran a cover story about a new artist-in-residence program in Santa Cruz that is being spearheaded by assistant professor of art <b>Dee Hibbert-Jones</b> and the public art installation she initiated with UCSC students at the city landfill.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of art <b>Ed Osborn</b> was quoted in a Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> feature story about the Digital Arts and New Media (DANM) graduate program, DANM program coordinator <b>Felicia Rice</b> was also quoted in the story.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> gave nice coverage to the recent visit of novelist Sandra Cisneros, which was sponsored by the Chicana/o Latina/o Research Center under the leadership of psychology professor <b>Aida Hurtado</b>.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that University Librarian <b>Virginia Steel</b> briefed the Friends of the UC Santa Cruz Library about the progress of the McHenry Library expansion project at a fundraiser that netted $15,000 toward a new reading room.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/05-15/news.asp "Permalink to news")
