---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6230
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Economists have been hitting the media jackpot lately. <b>Rob Fairlie</b> fielded calls from the <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, American Public Radio's <i>Marketplace</i>, and <i>Inc.</i> magazine about his research on entrepreneurship<b>.</b> Joining Fairlie in the limelight earlier was <b>Lori Kletzer,</b> who made the Sunday <i>New York Times</i> business pages with columnist Daniel Gross referring to a report coauthored by Kletzer, an expert on labor outsourcing, in a column on the topic.
</p>
<p>
  Canada's <i>Leader-Post</i> ran a feature story on music professor <b>David Cope</b> and his work as a leader in the field of computer-created musical compositions.
</p>
<p>
  Research on lead poisoning in California condors led by environmental toxicologist <b>Donald Smith</b> was covered in the <i>Monterey Herald, Salinas Californian</i>, and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Earth scientist <b>James Zachos</b> was quoted in an article about global warming that ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Sacramento Bee</i>, and about 35 other national media outlets.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Boston Globe</i> featured digital arts and new media graduate student <b>Michael Dale</b>--and the C-SPAN archive he cocreated for his thesis project--in an article about an event at Harvard, where attendees debated how to move wiki technology and values into education, politics, and the developing world.
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press picked up on a report by <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies for a story about black-Hispanic gang rivalries in Los Angeles. Pastor was also quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> article about how the regional housing shortage and high cost of housing is hitting Latinos and African Americans.
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press also covered a major report about the growing activism of Mexican immigrants coauthored by <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies. The AP story was reproduced widely, including in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Fort Worth Star-Telegram</i>, and stories also appeared in the <i>Christian Post Reporter</i> and the <i>Catholic News Service</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chicago Tribune</i> cited linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> several times in an article about Vice President Dick Cheney's frequent use of the phrase "if you will." And the <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> ran a story about <i>Far from the Madding Gerund</i>, a new book coauthored by Pullum. The <i>Orlando Sentinel, Monterey County Herald</i>, and Albany's <i>The Times Union</i> also picked up the story.
</p>
<p>
  Physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> and his wife <b>Nancy Abrams</b> were interviewed about their book, <i>The View from the Center of the Universe</i>, by John McLaughlin for the PBS-TV program <i>McLaughlin One on One.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gabriela Sandoval</b> of sociology was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> article about the political representation of Latinos and the factors that depress Latino participation in elections.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology instructor and dream expert <b>Veronica Tonay</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the dreams that accompany major life changes, like enrolling at a new school.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Sacramento Bee</i> ran a story about Earth scientist <b>Slawek Tulaczyk</b>'s research on Mount Shasta's Whitney Glacier.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Detroit Free Press</i> cited research by economist <b>Justin Marion</b> in a story about the effects of Proposition 209, which banned the use of affirmative action in business and higher education. Marion's research indicates that the initiative has saved taxpayers money by no longer requiring that a portion of state and local road projects be set aside for businesses owned by minorities and women.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Sandra Faber</b> was quoted in an article about dark matter in <i>Chemical and Engineering News</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the New Teacher Center was featured in a <i>Detroit Free Press</i> article about the challenges faced by new teachers.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Berkeley Daily Planet</i> noted that <b>Karlton Hester</b>, director of Jazz Studies at UCSC, will be a panelist at a two-day symposium in Oakland on legendary saxophonist Charlie Parker and the significance of black artists in the 1950s.
</p>
<p>
  The <b>Center for Agroecology</b>'s apprenticeship in organic horticulture was the subject of a feature article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metroactive</i> lauded Arts Division lecturer <b>Julia Page</b>'s mixed-media installation in the "NextNew2006" show at the San Jose Institute of Contemporary Art.
</p>
<p>
  <i>TechWeb</i> ran a story about video processing technology developed by electrical engineer <b>Peyman Milanfar</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Toronto Star</i> included film expert <b>B. Ruby Rich</b>'s recommendations in its coverage of the Toronto International Film Festival.
</p>
<p>
  Reviews of the <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</b> summer plays, as well as a New Conservatory Theatre Center (NCTC) performance piece featuring associate art professor <b>Elizabeth Stephens</b>, appeared in <i>Bay Area Reporter.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a story about <b>psychology students</b> who spent their summer in Costa Rica, where they worked in orphanages and foster homes, teaching literacy and other skills.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Agence France Presse</i> noted that UCSC linguistics chair <b>Junko Ito</b> accepted the Gauss prize for mathematics for her 90-year-old father, Kiyoshi Ito, at the 25th annual International Congress of Mathematicians presided by Spanish King Juan Carlos.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Margaret Wilson</b> was featured in the <i>Aptos Times</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> announced the winners of the UCSC Library's 40th Annual Book Collection Essay Contest for UCSC students, sponsored by the <b>Friends of the UCSC Library</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/09-11/news.asp "Permalink to news")
