---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4625
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> quoted American studies professor emeritus <b>John Dizikes</b> in an article about the "rockification of sport"--the loud background soundtrack that weaves through today's sporting events.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Mike Males</b> appeared on the CBS News program <i>Sunday Morning</i>, during a segment about the aging of the baby boomers.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>John Jordan</b>, codirector of UCSC's Dickens Project, was quoted on Minnesota Public Radio about the Christmas stories of Charles Dickens.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Michael Hutchison</b> took a call from the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the recent wave of layoffs sweeping through the U.S. automotive industry.
</p>
<p>
  Michigan's <i>Morning Sun</i> ran a story about history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b>'s appearance as the keynote speaker of Central Michigan University's Black History month celebrations, where she spoke about racism and sexism, invoked the legacies of Coretta Scott King and Rosa Parks, and called for the impeachment of President Bush. Davis was also featured in the <i>Yes Weekly</i> about a speech she delivered at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro on Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
</p>
<p>
  Journalism lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> contributed an article to <i>Foreign Policy in Focus</i> about recent events in Iran.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story recapping the 2005 local theater scene, praising shows by <b>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</b> and UCSC student productions.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/02-13/news.asp "Permalink to news")
