---
layout: post
title: "Advisers now have access to MyUCSC"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 4571
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Advising &amp; Degree Audit and Academic Information Systems (AIS) have announced a long-anticipated new feature: adviser access to MyUCSC. Through the UCSC portal, the advising community can now benefit from improved navigation, more tools and links, and the ability to establish "my links," or AIS favorites.
</p>
<p>
  Previously, only faculty and students had access to MyUCSC. In a series of discussions last year with advisers and department managers, providing access to MyUCSC was often mentioned as a top priority. As of January 5, this access is available to all advisers, including college, department, and student affairs advisers.
</p>
<p>
  "I'm a big fan of portal access", said adviser Michelle Taylor. "I especially like one-click advising. It's the same information, just easier to get."
</p>
<p>
  Academic Information Systems provides the technology for academic records for the university, including enrollment information, records, grades, and class rosters. A portal is a web site that allows delivery of content-specific information to a targeted audience.
</p>
<p>
  Common commercial portals include sites such as Yahoo! and Amazon. Adviser access to AIS through MyUCSC will organize and provide common information to help increase adviser efficiency and reduce the number of keystrokes needed to perform routine tasks or access information. In many cases, it replaces the PeopleSoft breadcrumb navigation.
</p>
<p>
  If you have further questions or need assistance logging in through MyUCSC, contact the AIS helpdesk at <a href="mailto:ais.ucsc.edu/help">ais.ucsc.edu/help</a>, <a href="mailto:ais-help@ucsc.edu">ais-help@ucsc.edu</a> or call 9-1611.
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/05-06/01-30/brief-ais.asp "Permalink to brief-ais")
