---
layout: post
title: "Campus hosting UC Regents October 18-19"
author: Jennifer McNulty
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/tour.06-10-02.jpg
    - caption: ""
---

During their first visit to UCSC since 2002, members of the UC Board of Regents will tour new buildings, hear about new programs and areas of research distinction, and meet Acting Chancellor George Blumenthal.

Among the highlights of the [October 18-19 tour][1] will be an introduction to UCSC's leadership in interdisciplinary research, presented Oct. 18 by Blumenthal, Campus Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor David Kliger, and Humanities Dean Georges Van Den Abbeele.

Digital arts and new media will also be featured the first day, presented by Arts Dean Edward Houghton and Professor Margaret Morse, while Social Sciences Dean Sheldon Kamieniecki will showcase the intersection of UCSC research and public policy with a presentation about the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community. That evening, Blumenthal will host a dinner at University Center for Regents and invited guests.

On Oct. 19, a breakfast session with Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Education William Ladusaw will feature the "living and learning environment." Students, staff, and faculty will join the Regents for informal discussions about the colleges, service learning, and other aspects of the student experience at UCSC.

On Thursday, the Regents will have the opportunity to tailor their visit to their interests by choosing among simultaneous events. One walking tour with Engineering Dean Steve Kang will feature UCSC's computer game design program, a tour of a biomolecular science and engineering laboratory, and electrical engineering professor Wentai Liu discussing biomimetic microelectronic systems. Another tour will feature a discussion of stem cells hosted by Physical and Biological Sciences Dean Stephen Thorsett, climate change with Vice Provost and Dean of Graduate Studies Lisa Sloan, and a roundtable discussion with faculty, graduate, and undergraduate students about UCSC's unique health sciences major.

During the visit, the Regents will tour the new Humanities and Social Sciences Building and attend events in the Media Theater, Earth and Marine Sciences Building, University Center, Engineering 2 Building, and Baskin Engineering Building.

Following the walking tours, the group will travel over the hill to visit UCSC facilities in the NASA Ames Conference Center and hear about collaborative research and learning projects. Led by Vice Provost of Silicon Valley Initiatives Carl Walsh, the group will learn about the Bio-Info-Nano Research and Development Institute, a voice-operated computer system developed by linguistics scientist Beth Ann Hockey, and other projects.

"UCSC is making great strides on all fronts as a major national university. This visit will highlight the breadth and quality of our academic programs and spotlight our faculty and students," said Donna Murphy, vice chancellor of University Relations. "Most of all, the Regents will see the positive impact UCSC's educational and research programs are having locally and globally."

The Regents make three informational visits each year to campuses within the UC system. They will be joined by staff from the UC Office of the President and other invited guests.

As required by law whenever they gather as a group, the Regents will hold public comment periods, one on each day of their visit. On Oct. 18, a 15-minute public comment period will begin at 3:45 p.m. in the new Humanities Auditorium. Details of the Oct. 19 comment period, and other updated information, will be posted soon on the [Regents' visit web site.][1]

Speakers who wish to address the group are asked to notify the Regents in advance of their visit as the comment periods are usually no longer than 20 minutes. For more information, contact Anne Shaw, acting secretary of the Regents, at (510) 987-9220.

[1]: http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/regents-visit_10-06/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/10-02/regents.asp "Permalink to regents")
