---
layout: post
title: "Applications for staff adviser to Regents post due February 28"
author: Public Information Department
images:
---

All eligible UC staff and non-Senate academic employees interested in serving as the 2007-2008 staff adviser designate to the UC Board of Regents need to apply by the end of the day on February 28.

At its January 18, meeting, the UC Board of Regents approved a permanent staff adviser program designed to improve direct communication between UC employees and the Board and to help facilitate staff input to the Board's deliberations and decisions.

UCSC [Staff Advisory Board][1] members Patt Takeuchi and Rosemary Anderson attended the Regents meeting the day before the vote in support of the program. Takeuchi spoke during the public comment period and submitted a statement to the Board of Regents. SAB member Marco Garcia, the junior delegate to the systemwide UC Staff Assemblies, was present at the Thursday vote in support of the proposal.

Under the program, two staff or non-Senate academic employees serve as nonvoting advisers to designated Regents' committees. The staff adviser designate for 2007-2008 will be selected from all eligible UC staff and non-Senate academic employees by UC President Dynes in consultation with the chairman of the Board of Regents.

The term of service will be for two years beginning July 1--the first year as staff adviser designate, and the second year as staff adviser.

Further information about the staff adviser program, including aqn the application form is [available online.][2]

[1]: http://www2.ucsc.edu/sab/
[2]: http://www.ucop.edu/staffadvisorpgm/

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/02-12/brief-sab.asp "Permalink to brief-sab")
