---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6498
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Computer engineer <strong>Luca de Alfaro</strong>'s Wikipedia project continues to get press coverage, most recently in the <i>Washington Post, Business Week, New Scientist, Information Week, PC World,</i> and <i>Tech Web.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <strong>Andrew Szasz</strong> was featured in a <i>Toronto Star</i> article about the shortcomings of popular consumer-based trends in environmentalism. Also in sociology, <strong>Melanie DuPuis</strong> appeared on Michael Olson's radio program, discussing the long history in this country of food reform movements.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> ran a story about the unusual partnership between the <strong>University Library's Special Collections</strong> and the Heinlein Prize Trust to make the entire contents of the renowned science fiction author's UCSC archive available online. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>KSCO</i> radio also reported the story.
</p>
<p>
  Environmental toxicologist <strong>Donald Smith</strong> was quoted in stories about lead poisoning in condors in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Contra Costa Times, Monterey County Herald,</i> and <i>Salon.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  A story in <i>USA Today</i> about the use of artificial intelligence in computer games featured quotes from computer scientist <strong>Michael Mateas</strong>.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <strong>Nate Dominy's</strong> new genome-based work on the diet of early humans continued to get media coverage, including a piece in <i>iwire,</i> a technology-oriented web publication.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted <strong>Chancellor Blumenthal</strong> in their coverage of the recent educational summit held on campus.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <strong>Peter Raimondi</strong> was quoted in a story in the <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> about a plan to create artificial reefs off the coast.
</p>
<p>
  Marine ecologist <strong>James Estes</strong> was quoted in a <i>Science Now</i> story about kelp forests in tropical waters.
</p>
<p>
  A story in <i>Space Daily</i> about a national report on NASA's space science programs included quotes from physicist <strong>Joel Primack.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Science</i> magazine about the Bio-Info-Nano Research and Development Institute (BIN-RDI) included quotes from engineering dean <strong>Michael Isaacson</strong> and <strong>David Lackner,</strong> director of the BIN-RDI affiliates program.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Deb Abbott</strong>, director of the Lionel Cantu GLBT Resource Center, was featured in the October issue of the <i>Advocate Magazine</i> (print and online), discussing her book <i>From Wedded Wife to Lesbian Life</i> and her clinical work with formerly married lesbian and bisexual women.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC's <strong>Arts &amp; Lectures</strong> program was well-represented in the <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> "Fall Arts Preview" issue featuring upcoming performing arts events.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/07-08/10-01/news.asp "Permalink to news")
