---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5847
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  A front-page story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about alternative energy research at UCSC featured electrical engineer <strong>Ali Shakouri,</strong> chemist <strong>Jin Zhang,</strong> physicist <strong>Sue Carter,</strong> and Carter's graduate students <strong>Veronica Sholin</strong> and <strong>Jeremy Olson.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Joshua Aizenman's</strong> views got a broad airing when his work was cited prominently in a Bloomberg News commentary that urged Asia to "get out of the trap of export dependence." The story appeared in numerous papers around the world, including the <i>International Herald Tribune, Economic Times</i> of India, the <i>Asbury Park Press</i> of New Jersey, <i>The Standard</i> of Hong Kong, <i>The China Post</i> of Taiwan, and the <i>Korea Herald</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant dean of the arts <strong>Keith Muscutt</strong> was featured in <i>USA Today, CNN</i>, and <i>ScienceDaily</i> stories about the discovery of a previously unknown pre-Columbian ruin in Peru.
</p>
<p>
  An AP news story about amateur astronomers helping in the search for new planets featured astronomer <strong>Gregory Laughlin</strong> and ran in dozens of newspapers, including the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, Ventura County Star, Baltimore Sun, Cincinnati Enquirer,</i> and <i>International Herald Tribune,</i> as well as online news sites including ABC News, CBS News, Fox News, CNN, MSNBC, and Space.com.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <strong>Angela Davis</strong> was quoted in an <i>Ebony</i> article about the enduring positive social impact of the Black Panthers. The <i>Salt Lake Tribune</i> also ran a feature story about Davis's keynote address at the University of Utah's 23rd annual Martin Luther King celebration.
</p>
<p>
  Research on raindrop formation by climate scientists <strong>Patrick Chuang</strong> and <strong>Jennifer Small</strong> was featured in the <i>Mid-County Post.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Stockton Record</i> quoted emerita professor of American studies <strong>Judy Yung</strong> in a story about her book, <i>Chinese American Voices: From the Gold Rush to Today</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Research on star clusters led by astronomer <strong>Jason Kalirai</strong> was covered in the <i>Vancouver Province, Victoria Times Colonist,</i> and <i>Prince George Citizen.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> included <strong>Tammi Rossman-Benjamin</strong>, a lecturer in Hebrew, in a story about RateMyProfessors.com; she was one of three in the Monterey Bay Area getting top scores from student reviewers.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Christof Bernau</strong> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems was interviewed by KSCO Radio about the accomplishments of the UCSC Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture, which are being honored at the Eco-Farm Conference.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Life Science Weekly</i> ran a story about research on the ribosome by molecular biologist <strong>Harry Noller.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about <i>Bodies in the Making</i>, a book by the campus's <strong>Institute for Advanced Feminist Research</strong> that features essays by 11 UCSC professors, quoting coeditor and literature professor <strong>Helene Moglen</strong>, history of consciousness professor <strong>Donna Haraway</strong>, and literature graduate student <strong>Marla Frangos</strong>.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/01-22/news.asp "Permalink to news")
