---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5906
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> covered a recent tour of once-black Los Angeles neighborhoods that are becoming Latino, and covered the comments of tour leader <strong>Manuel Pastor</strong> of Latin American and Latino studies. The tour was organized by the nonprofit Community Coalition.
</p>
<p>
  History of Art and Visual Culture professor <strong>Catherine Soussloff</strong> contributed a piece to <i>Art Journal</i> about book publishing in the field of art history and visual studies.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about new evidence that sea gulls prey on young salmon featured biologist <strong>Patricia Morris.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Psychology instructor <strong>Veronica Tonay</strong> was quoted in a <i>Monterey County Herald</i> article about the explosive nature of neighborhood feuds.
</p>
<p>
  Research on the Andromeda galaxy led by astronomy graduate student <strong>Karoline Gilbert</strong> was covered by Space.com, PhysOrg.com, and CNN.com.
</p>
<p>
  Feminist studies professor <strong>Bettina Aptheker</strong> was featured in a Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> story/interview about her new memoir <i>Intimate Politics</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Robert Fairlie</strong> was quoted in an <i>FSB Fortune Small Business</i> cover story about business ownership.
</p>
<p>
  In a writeup about state efforts to staunch the exodus of new teachers from classrooms across the country, the Associated Press gave a nod to UCSC's <strong>New Teacher Center</strong>, noting that every school district in California has a mentoring-based support program for new teachers.
</p>
<p>
  Film critic <strong>B. Ruby Rich</strong> of community studies was quoted in a story that appeared in the <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> and <i>Lexington Herald Leader</i>, among other papers, about whether the character played by Isaiah Washington on <i>Grey's Anatomy</i> should become gay in response to homophobic comments recently made by the actor.
</p>
<p>
  Seismologist <strong>Emily Brodsky</strong> was quoted in an article in <i>Science Now</i> about the influence of earthquakes on volcanoes.
</p>
<p>
  Mississippi's <i>The Clarion Ledger</i> and <i>Sun Herald</i> reported that history of consciousness professor <strong>Angela Davis</strong> would be a featured speaker during Black History Month activities at the University of Mississippi.
</p>
<p>
  Feminist studies professor <strong>Bettina Aptheker</strong> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about a roundtable panel held at UCSC featuring nationally-known activist scholars discussing issues of social justice, race, and feminism.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/02-12/news.asp "Permalink to news")
