---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6069
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> covered planetary scientist <strong>Francis Nimmo's</strong> research on Saturn's moon Enceladus, as did the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, Christian Science Monitor, Pasadena Star-News, Whittier Daily News, Space Daily,</i> and UPI wire service.
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group's web cams on falcon nests in San Francisco and San Jose continue to get news coverage, including a story featuring researcher <strong>Brian Latta</strong> in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and one featuring researcher <strong>Janet Linthicum</strong> on KQED Radio's <i>California Report</i> and on NPR stations nationally.
</p>
<p>
  A study of black holes in merging galaxies led by astronomer <strong>Claire Max</strong> was covered by <i>USA Today, New Scientist, Science Daily, Space.com,</i> and <i>PhysOrg.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  In a story about West Coast Shakespeare festivals, the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> noted that Shakespeare Santa Cruz's "esteemed artistic director" <strong>Paul Whitworth</strong> recently announced his retirement after more than two decades with the company and 10 years at the helm.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomers <strong>Jean Brodie</strong> and <strong>Raja Guhathakurta</strong> were quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about a study of the future merger of the Milky Way and Andromeda galaxies.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> ran a front-page story about a partnership between UCSC's Center for Adaptive Optics and Hartnell College, with quotes from associate director <strong>Lisa Hunter.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  <i>New Scientist</i> magazine ran a story about a study by postdoctoral researcher <strong>Pierre Sepulchre</strong> on the effects of climate change on Neanderthals in Europe.
</p>
<p>
  Ocean scientists <strong>Mary Silver</strong> and <strong>Raphael Kudela</strong> were featured in a story in the <i>Salinas Californian</i> about a bloom of toxic algae in Monterey Bay.
</p>
<p>
  Research on northern fur seals by a team including anthropologist <strong>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez,</strong> paleontologist <strong>Paul Koch,</strong> and biologist <strong>Daniel Costa</strong> was covered by <i>Science Daily, Biology News Net, PhysOrg.com, YubaNet,</i> and <i>Alaska Report.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Electronic Musician</i> quoted music lecturer and director of UCSC's electronic-music studios <strong>Peter Elsea</strong> in a story about how technology helps disabled musicians practice their art and profession, noting custom software he created for his wife Veronica, a blind violist and composer.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about a Silicon Valley networking conference for entrepreneurs included quotes from <strong>Ram Akella,</strong> professor of information systems and technology management.
</p>
<p>
  iTWire ran a story about physicist <strong>Anthony Aguirre</strong> and his ideas about possible evidence of multiple universes.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a feature story on music lecturer <strong>Irene Herrmann.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/05-28/news.asp "Permalink to news")
