---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5947
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Psychology's <strong>Eileen Zurbriggen</strong> ran the international media gauntlet to discuss the new report by the American Psychological Association on the sexualization of girls. Zurbriggen, who chaired the APA task force, was interviewed by the BBC World Service and the BBC's Radio 4, <i>USA Today</i>, Bloomberg News, ABC's <i>World News Tonight</i>, KION-TV, and satellite radio's the <i>Judith Warner Show</i>. The report was featured in newspapers coast to coast, including the <i>Washington Post</i> and a front-page spread in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Manuel Pastor</strong> of Latin American and Latino studies made a big media splash with CJTC's new report on environmental inequity in the San Francisco Bay Area. The <i>Oakland Tribune</i>'s coverage prompted an Associated Press story that appeared in numerous papers, including the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Monterey Herald</i>, while the <i>Contra Costa Times</i>, <i>East Bay Business Times</i>, <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal,</i> and two Chinese-language papers, <i>Sing Tao Daily</i> and <i>Mingpao</i>, also covered the story. Television coverage included stations KRON, KGO, KPIX, and KTVU, as well as Spanish-language stations KSTS and KDTV. Radio coverage included KGO, KPFA, KQED, and KCBS.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <strong>Stan Woosley</strong> is featured in a <i>National Geographic</i> magazine article about his research on supernovae and gamma-ray bursts.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropology's <strong>Adrienne Zihlman</strong> was quoted in a <i>Washington Post</i> story about the revelation that chimpanzees make and use weapons to hunt prey.
</p>
<p>
  New findings on the temperature effects of irrigation by climate researchers <strong>Lisa Sloan, Mark Snyder,</strong> and <strong>Lara Kueppers</strong> was covered by the <i>Merced Sun-Star, Central Valley Business Times, San Jose Mercury News,</i> and <i>Contra Costa Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press highlighted the work of the <strong>New Teacher Center</strong> in a story about mentoring programs designed to keep new teachers in the profession.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front page story about astronomer <strong>Gregory Laughlin</strong> and his efforts to enlist amateur astronomers in the search for distant planets.
</p>
<p>
  An <i>Associated Press</i> article about language styles and patterns on the Internet cited <i>The Language Log</i>, a popular blog co-created by linguistics professor <strong>Geoffrey Pullum</strong>. The story was picked up by <i>Washingtonpost.com, SFGate.com</i>, and <i>MiamiHerald.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <strong>Barry Sinervo</strong> was featured in a <i>Philadelphia Inquirer</i> story about his research on the sexual strategies of side-blotched lizards.
</p>
<p>
  Geologist <strong>Gary Griggs</strong> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about tar balls on local beaches.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Richard Hughey,</strong> chair of computer engineering, and <strong>Phillip Berman,</strong> chair of biomolecular engineering, were quoted in a story about UCSC's new major in bioengineering in <i>Nanotechnology Now.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Nanotechnology Now</i> also ran a story about the 10th anniversary of the engineering school, with quotes from dean <strong>Steve Kang</strong> and electrical engineer <strong>Michael Isaacson.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Film and digital media lecturer <strong>Isabel Reichert</strong> and her family were profiled in the <i>East Bay Express</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <strong>Daniel Costa</strong> was quoted in stories about his research using satellite tracking to study seals and sea lions in <i>National Geographic News, Space Daily, Astrobiology Magazine,</i> and <i>SpaceRef.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Brian Walton,</strong> coordinator of the Predatory Bird Research Group, was quoted in a <i>Contra Costa Times</i> story about bird deaths at the Altamont wind farm and a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about bald eagles.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Good Times</i> ran a story about a new book on whales and whaling edited by biologist <strong>James Estes.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> published a feature story on UCSC alum <strong>Aaron Platt</strong> who was nominated for a 2007 Independent Spirit Award--considered the Oscars of the independent film world--for his camera work on a movie written and directed by fellow alum, <strong>Cam Archer</strong>. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also ran a story about the former film student.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/02-26/news.asp "Permalink to news")
