---
layout: post
title: "Basketball classic honors Martin Luther King Jr.; more events planned"
author: Louise Donahue
images:
  -
    - file: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/art/bball_king.230.jpg
    - caption: "University Brothers/University Sisters from the African American Resource & Cultural Center helped Sis. Paula Livers-Powell, center director, and Duane Garner, program coordinator, with the basketball classic."
---

Area youth shared in UCSC's celebration of Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday at the King Basketball Classic January 15, one of several campus events celebrating black history during winter quarter.

Middle School teams from throughout the area competed at the West Gym, with athletic director Linda Spradley doing the play-by-play.

The event blended basketball with African American history. Youngsters won prizes at halftime for their statements about King.

"Goodie bags" including UCSC-related gifts and admissions information were also given to participants.

"It exceeded my expectations," said Sis. Paula Livers-Powell, director of the African American Resource & Cultural Center. The center's University Brothers/University Sisters played an active role in the tournament, cosponsored by the center and OPERS.

Other upcoming events celebrating King and African American history include:

* **Rainbow Theater** will present [_Dr. Goddess: A One-Woman Show_][1], at 8 p.m. January 24 at the College Nine/Ten Multipurpose Room. The free show is filled with African, jazz and hip-hop dance, dramatic monologues, poetry, music, and sketch comedy. The Colleges Nine/College Ten Center for Cultural Diversity and Arts is sponsoring the performance. For more information, contact [Don Williams. ][2]
* **Black Greekfest** will take place from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. January 27 at the Stevenson Events Center. The celebration will include a step show exhibition and stroll competition. General admission is $10; admission for Greeks displaying their letters is $8. Black Greekfest is sponsored by UCSC Zeta Phi Beta Sorority and the African/Black Student Alliance.   
E-mail [zphibucsc@yahoo.com][3] for more information.

* **The University Brothers/Sisters Lecture Series **presents "Reconstructing the 'Wire:' Saving our Brothers through Transition & Redevelopment." The Rev. Eugene A. Potter will speak from noon to 2 p.m. February 9 in Conference Room D of the Bay Tree Building about ex-offenders rebuilding Baltimore. The lecture is sponsored by the African American Resource & Cultural Center. For more information, contact the center at (831) 459-3207 or [african@ucsc.edu][4]

*** U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters **will deliver the address for the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Convocation at 7 p.m. in the Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium. The event is free and open to the public. (See January 15 [Currents article][5])

*** The UCSC African-American Theater Arts Troupe** presents _Don't Get God Started,_ by Ron Milner and directed by Don Williams. Performances will be February 23, 24, and 25 at the UCSC Second Stage Theater; March, 2 and 3, Santa Cruz High School Auditorium; and March 10, Oldeyemer Center in Seaside. For more information, contact the Center for Cultural Diversity and Arts at (831) 459-1861 or 459-3409 or e-mail [dwilliam@ucsc.edu][2]
* **The UCSC Gospel Choir **performs at 7 p.m. on March 15 at Porter Dining Hall. For more information, contact choir director Valerie Fiddmont at [valerie@valeriejoi.com][6].

[1]: http://www.drgoddess.com
[2]: mailto:dwilliam@ucsc.edu
[3]: mailto:zphibucsc@yahoo.com
[4]: mailto:african@ucsc.edu
[5]: http://currents.ucsc.edu/06-07/01-15/convocation.asp
[6]: mailto:valerie@valeriejoi.com

[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/01-22/events.asp "Permalink to events")
