---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6063
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> reported on work by <strong>Patricia Allen</strong> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems on consumer preferences regarding food labeling that goes beyond "organic" to address issues such as animal husbandry, country of origin, and the working conditions of workers in the agriculture and food industry. And the <i>Fresno Bee</i> included the <strong>Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems</strong> in a write-up about the expansion of UC's research in organic agriculture.
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Economist</i> relied on the expertise of <strong>Karen Holl</strong> of environmental studies for an article about the role of bats in tropical rainforest restoration. The piece also described Holl's own restoration research in Costa Rica.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Silicon Valley Business Journal</i> ran a profile of UCSC Foundation trustee <strong>Jack Baskin</strong> and his wife <strong>Peggy Downes Baskin,</strong> with quotes from Baskin Professor of Computer Engineering <strong>Pat Mantey,</strong> engineering associate dean <strong>Michael Isaacson,</strong> and Acting Chancellor <strong>George Blumenthal.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Good Times</i> ran stories about graduate students <strong>Shaye Wolf</strong> and <strong>Doug Bevington,</strong> whose efforts helped stop a liquified natural gas terminal in Baja California.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Bruce Bridgeman</strong> of psychology was interviewed by a Korean television crew that was exploring the psychological phenomena behind the Mystery Spot.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.kqed.org/quest/television/view/68">KQED Television's <i>Quest</i></a> program produced a profile about anthropology graduate student <strong>Chelsey Juarez</strong>, who is pioneering a new forensic technique to help identify the remains of Mexican immigrants who die anonymously while trying to cross the border into the United States. The show aired on KQED and KTEH, and the network plans to share the program with community organizations involved in immigration issues.
</p>
<p>
  United Press International covered research by <strong>Chris Wilmers</strong> of environmental studies about climate conditions and population cycles (see <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/text.asp?pid=1206">UCSC <i>Currents</i> story</a>). UPI's story was distributed widely and appeared online on Biology News Net and other Internet sites.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported that two humanities faculty--history professor <strong>Gail Hershatter</strong> and history of consciousness professor <strong>James Clifford</strong>--received 2007 Guggenheim Fellowship awards (<a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/text.asp?pid=1207">see UCSC <i>Currents</i> story</a>).
</p>
<p>
  Research by seismologist <strong>Thorne Lay</strong> and graduate student <strong>Yingcai Zheng</strong> on the structure of the mantle in subduction zones was covered by <i>Innovations Report, Space Daily,</i> and <i>Huliq.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Mike Dooley's</strong> "revised Bretton Woods hypothesis" was cited by Bloomberg News in an article about the U.S. current account deficit that appeared in the <i>International Herald Tribune</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Statesman Journal</i> cited <strong>New Teacher Center</strong> research in an opinion piece about investing in mentor programs for new teachers and administrators.
</p>
<p>
  <i>College &amp; Research Library News</i> announced that UCSC has received $350,000 in gifts to create a global cyber cafe and outdoor reading garden in the campus's newly expanded and renovated <strong>McHenry Library</strong>.
</p><i>Des Moines Register</i><strong>Angela Davis</strong>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/04-23/news.asp "Permalink to news")
