---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6065
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Research by sociology's <strong>Dane Archer</strong> was cited in a <i>Detroit Free Press</i> article about a predicted rise in violent crime linked to the Iraq war.
</p>
<p>
  Earth scientist <strong>James Zachos</strong> was quoted in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> story, which also ran in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, New Jersey Star-Ledger,</i> and other newspapers, about the causes of a prehistoric global warming event.
</p>
<p>
  Research by anthropology's <strong>Nate Dominy</strong> was covered by <i>news@nature.com</i> and <i>livescience.com</i>, as well as other sites.
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://theater2.nytimes.com/2007/05/01/theater/reviews/01expo.html"><i>New York Times</i> reviewed</a> "Experiments in Love, Sex, Death and Art," a new show cocreated and performed by Art Department chair and associate professor <strong>Elizabeth Stephens</strong>.
</p>
<p>
  Physicist <strong>Thomas Banks</strong> is featured in an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine that explores various theories about the nature of the cosmos before the big bang.
</p>
<p>
  An article about nightmares that quotes dream expert <strong>Veronica Tonay</strong> of psychology continues to appear in papers, most recently in the <i>Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette</i>, the <i>Mobile Register</i>, and the <i>Sacramento Bee</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <strong>Garth Illingworth</strong> was quoted in a <i>New Scientist</i> story about a congressional hearing on space sciences.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Don Rothman</strong>, senior writing lecturer and founding director of UCSC's Central California Writing Project, contributed an op-ed to the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the Virginia Tech tragedy.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> noted that FUSE, a group exhibition of new work by the faculty of the UCSC <strong>Art Department</strong>, will travel to Japan as part of a faculty art exchange.
</p>
<p>
  <i>US Fed News</i> noted that <strong>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</strong> was one of 35 theater companies chosen to participate in the 2007-08 National Endowment for the Arts Shakespeare for a New Generation program.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/05-07/news.asp "Permalink to news")
