---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6071
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Research led by electrical engineer <strong>Holger Schmidt</strong> demonstrating atomic spectroscopy on a chip was covered by <i>Laser Focus World, Scientific American.com, Photonics.com, Nanotechwire.com, Phonotics Online,</i> and <i>Science Daily.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Eileen Zurbriggen</strong> of psychology had the last word in a lengthy Associated Press article about the impacts of today's "porn-driven" culture on young women. The widely circulated story appeared in the <i>Washington Post</i>, New Jersey's <i>Star-Ledger</i>, on <i>CNN.com,</i> and other news outlets.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Ann Pace,</strong> assistant director of the Center for Biomolecular Science &amp; Engineering, was interviewed on KSBW-TV (Ch. 8) and quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about funding for a stem cell research facility at UCSC, which was also covered by the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> (see <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/text.asp?pid=1368">Currents story</a>)<i>.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Sean Swezey</strong> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems has developed promising new ways to protect organic strawberries from lygus bugs, and his work was featured recently in <i>Western Farm Press.</i> And news of the campus's celebration of 40 years at the forefront of sustainable agriculture was picked up by <i>Sustainable Food News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Climate researcher <strong>Lisa Sloan</strong> discussed climate change in interviews on KZSC Radio and KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <strong>Glenn Stewart</strong> was featured in media coverage of the peregrine falcons released at Long Marine Laboratory, including stories in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Jose Mercury News,</i> KSBW-TV, KPIX-TV, and KGO-TV.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Brian Walton,</strong> coordinator of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group, was quoted in a story about the toxic effects of flame retardants that ran in the <i>Oakland Tribune, Tri-Valley Herald, Fremont Argus, San Mateo Times,</i> and <i>Alameda Daily Review.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <strong>Greg Laughlin</strong> was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> story about the origin and meaning of the expression "blue moon."
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Connell O'Donovan,</strong> program manager for Summer Session, was quoted at length in an article in the <a href="http://www.sltrib.com/search/ci_6010378"><i>Salt Lake Tribune</i></a> about the 30th anniversary celebration of the founding of Affirmation, a support group for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender Mormons.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> ran a story about the second graduating class of UCSC's <strong>Digital Arts and New Media</strong> <strong>(DANM)</strong> master's of fine arts program, quoting program manager <strong>Felicia Rice</strong>. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also ran an article about student work featured in DANM's year-end public exhibition at the Santa Cruz Digital Media Factory.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Times</i> of London ran an obituary for English scholar Philip Collins, noting that the internationally known professor taught at the annual <strong>Dickens Universe</strong> conference held each summer at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/06-11/news.asp "Permalink to news")
