---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5971
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Associate professor of literature <strong>Louis Chude-Sokei</strong> contributed an article to the editorial pages of the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about the recent controversy over the racial identity of Barack Obama.
</p>
<p>
  Research led by environmental toxicologist <strong>Donald Smith</strong> was featured in a <i>New Scientist</i> magazine article about the threat to California condors from lead bullets.
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Korea Herald</i> cited music professors <strong>Hi Kyung Kim</strong> and <strong>David Cope</strong> in an article about how Western composers are reviving Korean music by developing new repertoires for the "gayageum," an 1,800-year-old, 12-stringed, traditional Korean instrument.
</p>
<p>
  Computer engineer <strong>Jose Renau</strong> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the Sun OpenSPARC Center of Excellence at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  Geologist <strong>Gary Griggs</strong> was quoted in an article in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about plans for a seawall in the Pleasure Point area.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of music <strong>Karlton Hester</strong> appeared on WCPN and KPOO radio programs to discuss his book <i>Bigotry and the Afrocentric 'Jazz' Evolution</i>.
</p>
<p>
  An article about supercomputers on CNN.com included quotes from <strong>Joel Primack,</strong> professor of physics.
</p>
<p>
  San Luis Obispo's <i>The Tribune</i> reported that history of consciousness professor <strong>Angela Davis</strong> would headline Cal Poly's Women's History Month celebration.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/03-05/news.asp "Permalink to news")
