---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6496
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Wall Street Journal</i> quoted economist <strong>Michael Dooley</strong> in a recent story about the impact on financial markets of the U.S. current-account deficit.
</p>
<p>
  The discovery of light-sensing abilities in bacteria by biochemist <strong>Roberto Bogomolni</strong> and colleagues was covered in the <i>Financial Times</i> (London), <i>Forbes, The Scientist, Hindustan Times,</i> U.P.I., <i>Science Daily, Medical News Today, Health Day News, Health News Digest,</i> and <i>PressZoom.</i>
</p>
<p>
  National Public Radio's <i>Morning Edition</i> program tapped economist <strong>Lori Kletzer</strong> for insight about the news that an Indian software firm will hire about 500 computer programmers in Atlanta, a twist on the now-familiar story of the outsourcing of high-tech jobs to India.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>David Haussler,</strong> professor of biomolecular engineering, was featured in a recent episode of the weekly science show <i>Quest</i> on KQED TV.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <strong>Eileen Zurbriggen</strong> was quoted in a <i>FoxNews.com</i> story about the mental health consequences of the sexualization of young girls. . . . Also in psychology, <strong>Mara Mather</strong> was quoted in <i>The Times of India</i> in a story about new research that shows that the human brain appears to naturally "accentuate the positive" as we age. . . . And psychology's <strong>Jean Fox Tree's</strong> work was cited in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> column about a new book chronicling the history of verbal gaffes and "disfluencies." Fox Tree's research has revealed the role utterances such as "um" and "uh" play in speech comprehension.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Prairie Home Companion</i> host Garrison Keillor recently read Professor Emeritus <strong>David Swanger</strong>'s poem, "Patriarch at the Beach," on National Public Radio's <i>Writers' Almanac</i> program. The poem is from Swanger's latest book, <i>Wayne's College of Beauty,</i> which won the 2005 John Ciardi Prize for Poetry from MkBk Press. (Swanger will give a free reading September 19; <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/text.asp?pid=1549">see story</a>.)
</p>
<p>
  The "Slashdot effect" caused a surge of web traffic to computer scientist <strong>Luca de Alfaro's</strong> Wikipedia demo site after a mention of his research on the popular technology news site Slashdot, and <i>USA Today</i> also ran a story about his work.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> published a lengthy interview with <strong>Elliot Aronson</strong> of psychology about his new book, <i>Mistakes Were Made (But Not By Me)</i>, and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also published a feature article about the book.
</p>
<p>
  Climate change research by <strong>Michael Loik</strong> of environmental studies was noted in <i>Science</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Space Daily</i> ran stories about astronomer <strong>Steven Vogt's</strong> work on a new telescope, the Automated Planet Finder.
</p>
<p>
  A story in the <i>Palo Alto Daily News</i> about plans for Hanger One at NASA's Moffett Field included quotes from <strong>William Berry,</strong> director of the University Affiliated Research Center.
</p>
<p>
  Linguistics professor <strong>Geoffrey Pullum</strong> was quoted in <i>The Herald News</i> about Ebonics for an article about language and race.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Frank Drake,</strong> professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics, discussed astrobiology in an interview with <i>Astrobiology</i> magazine that also ran in <i>Space Daily.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> published a rave review of the <strong>Shakespeare Santa Cruz</strong> production of J.M. Synge's <i>The Playboy of the Western World</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> did a feature story on McHenry Library assistant <strong>Hisako Nakazawa</strong> and her expertise at restoring books.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> and the <i>Wichita Eagle</i> ran a story quoting assistant professor of theater arts <strong>Brandin Baron-Nusbaum</strong> about how current fashion trends date back historically hundreds of years.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted Acting Chancellor <strong>George Blumenthal</strong> in an article about the appointment of <strong>Felicia McGinty</strong> to the position of vice chancellor for Student Affairs.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about the <strong>Friends of the UCSC Library</strong> Book Collection Essay Contest.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/07-08/09-10/news.asp "Permalink to news")
