---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6492
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <strong>Campbell Leaper</strong> of psychology saw his research showcased in a <i>Washington Post</i> article about the talkativeness of men and women. The widely circulated article appeared in numerous papers, including the <i>St. Paul Pioneer Press</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Post</i> also turned to <strong>Elliot Aronson</strong> of psychology for insight into the psychological motivations behind President Bush's decision to commute the sentence of I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <strong>Daniel Costa</strong> and graduate student <strong>Jason Hassrick</strong> discussed their research on elephant seals on NPR's <i>Weekend All Things Considered.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> cited a pathbreaking study by psychology's dream expert <strong>Bill Domhoff</strong> in a story about the transformative power of "big dreams," including dreams about a loved one who has died. The article appeared in the <i>International Herald Tribune</i>, among many other papers.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> also tapped sociologist <strong>Herman Gray</strong>, who writes about race and television, for comment in a story about Black Entertainment Television.
</p>
<p>
  Research on the effects of maternal hormones in lizards by biologist <strong>Barry Sinervo</strong> and graduate student <strong>Lesley Lancaster</strong> was the subject of stories in the <i>Mid-County Post, Vancouver Sun,</i> Science Daily, CNN Magazine, Earthtimes.org, Biology News Net, PhysOrg.com, and UPI wire service.
</p>
<p>
  Professor emeritus <strong>Michael Soule's</strong> work in environmental studies received a major nod in a <i>Mother Jones</i> article about species loss.
</p>
<p>
  Research led by electrical engineer <strong>Holger Schmidt</strong> on photonic chips with hollow-core waveguides was covered by <i>Laser Focus World, Biophotonics International, Nanomaterials News, Spectroscopy Now,</i> and PhysOrg.com.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>New York Times</i> on the possibility of encoding secret messages in DNA included quotes from geneticist <strong>Gil Bejerano.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>San Mateo County Times</i> ran a story about UCSC's computer game design major, with quotes from computer science professor <strong>Jim Whitehead</strong> and students <strong>Nathaniel Emond, Karen Siebald,</strong> and <strong>Chelsea Collins.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Ocean scientist <strong>Raphael Kudela</strong> was featured in a story about harmful algal blooms in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  An article about the sea urchin genome in <i>The Scientist</i> magazine included a quote from <strong>David Haussler,</strong> professor of biomolecular engineering.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about efforts to create synthetic cells includes a quote from biomolecular engineer <strong>David Deamer.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  An article about prion proteins in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine includes a quote from biochemist <strong>Glenn Millhauser.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  An article about Santa Cruz in the travel section of the <i>Sacramento Bee</i> featured the UCSC Arboretum and the Seymour Marine Discovery Center, with quotes from the Arboretum's <strong>Steven McCabe.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the Pew Scholarship awarded to biologist <strong>Hinrich Boeger.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Earth sciences graduate student <strong>Patrick Wheatley</strong> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about a local amateur paleontologist.
</p>
<p>
  Vice chancellor of research <strong>Bruce Margon</strong> was quoted in a <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> story about a new science program for girls at E. A. Hall Middle School.
</p>
<p>
  A story about peregrine falcons in the <i>Epoch Times</i> featured the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group and biologist <strong>Brian Latta.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  An Associated Press story about sea otters featuring biologists <strong>Tim Tinker</strong> and <strong>Jim Estes</strong> ran in the <i>Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, Palm Springs Desert Sun,</i> and <i>Newark Star-Ledger.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Botanist <strong>Ingrid Parker</strong> appeared on the Community Television program <i>Voices</i> to discuss the colony collapse disorder affecting honeybees.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>TechWorld</i> about claims made by wireless company xG included quotes from electrical engineering professor <strong>Benjamin Friedlander.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <strong>James Clifford</strong> in an article about UCSC graduate <strong>Gillian Goslinga</strong>, who was honored with the 2006 Sardar Patel Award for "the best dissertation submitted at any American university on the subject of modern India."
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz <i>Good Times</i> ran a story about author and literature alumna <strong>Elizabeth</strong> <strong>McKenzie</strong> whose first novel has just been published.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/07-08/07-16/news.asp "Permalink to news")
