---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 5797
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez</b> of anthropology was quoted in the Sunday <i>New York Times</i> and in <i>Science NOW Daily News</i> about a finding reported in <i>Nature</i> magazine on new genetic evidence for the independent evolution of lactose tolerance in Africans.
</p>
<p>
  The BBC News ran a story about biologist <b>Scott Shaffer</b> using albatrosses to gather data on sea surface temperatures throughout the North Pacific, and the project was also featured in the syndicated newspaper column "Earthweek: A Diary of the Planet."
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of history <b>David Anthony</b> was interviewed on NPR's <i>To The Point</i> on the subject of blood diamonds (diamonds mined in a war zone and sold to finance an insurgent or invading army's war efforts), sparked by the release of a new feature film, <i>Blood Diamond</i>, starring Leonardo DiCaprio.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> fielded a call from the <i>Howey Political Report,</i> a weekly about Indiana politics, regarding the approach the Democratic congressional majority on Capitol Hill may take toward trade liberalization. She also talked with the <i>San Jose Business Journal</i> about the failure of the recent ballot proposal that would have raised the minimum wage in Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  <b>James Estes</b>, adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an AP story about new restrictions on U.S. Geological Survey scientists that ran in the <i>Washington Post, San Francisco Chronicle, Seattle Post-Intelligencer</i>, and other newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  Physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> was quoted in a story about supercomputers on CNN.com.
</p>
<p>
  Mexico City's <i>La Jornada</i> newspaper quoted visiting professor and UCSC alum <b>Francisco Rosado May</b> in its review of the movie <i>Apocalypto</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The online <i>Register</i> publication in the United Kingdom responded to a reader's query about whether blind people can see in their dreams by citing a paper coauthored by psychology's <b>Bill Domhoff</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Mateas</b>, assistant professor of computer science, was profiled in a cover story in <i>Good Times</i> and was featured in a segment on video games on KPIX TV (Ch. 5, San Francisco).
</p>
<p>
  A story about elephant seals in the diving magazine <i>Fathom</i> featured research led by biologist <b>Daniel Costa</b> and graduate student <b>Patrick Robinson</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Geologist <b>Gary Griggs</b> was quoted in a story about sand dunes on the floor of Monterey Bay that ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>San Mateo County Times</i>.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Monterey County Weekly</i> about invasive species in coastal waters included quotes from biologist <b>John Pearse</b>, adjunct biologist <b>Kerstin Wasson</b>, and graduate student <b>Rikke Preisler</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Biomolecular engineer <b>David Haussler</b> and UCSC's prominence in genomics were highlighted in a <i>Sacramento News and Review</i> story about genomic research at UC Davis.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> published an extensive cover story about literature professor <b>Nathaniel Mackey</b>, who won a 2006 National Book Award in poetry for <i>Splay Anthem</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran a piece on feminist studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> and her new memoir, <i>Intimate Politics.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/01-01/news.asp "Permalink to news")
