---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6493
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Glucose sensor technology developed by chemist <strong>Bakthan Singaram</strong> was featured in a story in the <i>Orange County Register</i> about the glucose monitoring products being developed as a result of his research.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <strong>Campbell Leaper</strong> got another round of attention for his work when <i>Boston Globe</i> columnist Ellen Goodman wrote about his review of studies on male-female communication. Goodman's column appeared in newspapers across the country, including the <i>Miami Herald</i>, the <i>Pittsburgh Post-Gazette</i>, the <i>Cincinnati Post</i>, the <i>Chattanooga Times Free Press</i>, the <i>Baltimore Sun</i>, the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>, and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Research on the magnetic properties of disk drives led by physicist <strong>Joshua Deutsch</strong> was featured in <i>EE Times, Electronic Design,</i> the <i>Inquirer</i> (London), <i>SlashDot.com, ITPro, ComputerWorld, TechWorld,</i> and <i>Science Daily.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Elliot Aronson</strong> of psychology made the national airwaves when he discussed his new book <i>Mistakes Were Made (But Not by Me)</i> on National Public Radio's <i>Talk of the Nation: Science Friday.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Electrical engineer <strong>Holger Schmidt</strong> was a guest on KUSP radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> to discuss his research on optical devices, which was also covered by <i>Photonics</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  An Associated Press story about the response to Tammy Faye Messner's death included comment from anthropologist <strong>Susan Harding</strong> about the early impact of Messner and her first husband, televangelist Jim Bakker.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Portland Oregonian</i> ran a story about a study of bull kelp harvesting by marine biologists <strong>Yuri Springer, Cynthia Hays,</strong> and <strong>Mark Carr.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Lori Kletzer's</strong> work on the offshoring of jobs in the service sector was cited in a column that appeared in the <i>Lexington Herald-Leader</i>. And economist <strong>Mike Dooley's</strong> work was cited in <i>Investors Chronicle</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <strong>Garth Illingworth</strong> was quoted in a <i>New Scientist</i> story about distant galaxies.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Michael Loik</strong> of environmental studies has been on the media circuit, fielding calls from the <i>Valley Press</i> about the fire threat in Scotts Valley and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the city's plans to hire a climate change czar. That story also appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and the <i>Contra Costa Times</i>. Loik also appeared on MetroFarm's syndicated radio program, discussing the impact of recent weird weather on agriculture.
</p>
<p>
  Environmental toxicologist <strong>Donald Smith</strong> was quoted in a <i>Monterey County Herald</i> story about a proposed ban on lead bullets to protect the California condor.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Patricia Allen</strong>, director of the Center for Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems, discussed organic farming on KQED Radio's <i>Forum</i> program, and she appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program in conjunction with the campus's celebration of 40 years at the forefront of sustainable agriculture. UCSC Farm Manager <strong>Jim Leap</strong> and apprenticeship graduates <strong>Jered Lawson</strong> and <strong>Nancy Vail</strong> also appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> to promote anniversary activities.
</p>
<p>
  Agroecology's <strong>Sean Swezey</strong> fielded a flurry of media calls about his latest research on organic strawberry production. Reporters called from the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, the Watsonville <i>Register-Pajaronian</i>, <i>Good Times</i>, and KSCO Radio. Swezey also participated in a panel discussion about strawberries on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program.
</p>
<p>
  Planetary scientist <strong>Francis Nimmo</strong> was quoted in a story about Saturn's moons that ran in the <i>Pasadena Star-News</i> and the <i>Whittier Daily News.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Long Marine Lab manager <strong>Steve Davenport</strong> was quoted in a <i>Mid-County Post</i> article about the desalination pilot plant, and was also interviewed by television stations KION, KPIX, and KSMS.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/07-08/07-30/news.asp "Permalink to news")
