---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6491
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front page story about the use of Wikipedia for student research that featured politics professor <strong>Dan Wirls</strong>, and also quoted assistant history professor <strong>Noriko Aso</strong>, politics professor <strong>Ronnie Lipschutz</strong>, earth sciences professor <strong>Quentin Williams</strong>, associate literature professor <strong>Chris Connery</strong>, linguistics professor <strong>Jaye Padgett</strong>, and economics professor <strong>Lori Kletzer</strong>.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <strong>Rob Fairlie</strong> was interviewed by <i>BusinessWeek</i> and <i>Entrepreneur</i> magazines about his latest work on minority entrepreneurs.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted assistant dean of the arts <strong>Keith Muscutt</strong> in a story about the discovery by Peruvian archeologists of the earliest documented gunshot victim in the Americas, an Inca warrior who was shot by Spanish conquistadors in 1536. South Africa's <i>The Star</i>, Canada's <i>Winnipeg Free Press</i>, and <i>Grand Rapids Press</i> also picked up the story.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> bade a page-one farewell to <strong>Manuel Pastor</strong> of Latin American and Latino studies, whose work with the Center for Justice, Tolerance and Community benefited Live Oak residents, as well as the San Francisco Bay area's poor and minority populations.
</p>
<p>
  In a major analysis of the potential offshoring of jobs in San Diego County, the <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> tapped economist and labor expert <strong>Lori Kletzer</strong> for comment about the projected effects of globalization on American workers.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted feminist studies professor <strong>Bettina Aptheker</strong> in an obituary for Martin Meyerson, who had a brief but tumultuous tenure as acting chancellor at UC Berkeley during the era of the Free Speech Movement.
</p>
<p>
  New Teacher Center director <strong>Ellen Moir</strong> has been quoted twice in <i>Education Week</i> recently, first in a story about mentoring programs for principals and then in an article about the center's work helping novice teachers in the classroom.
</p>
<p>
  A report by the <strong>New Teacher Center</strong> was a driving force in the creation of a new teacher resource center for public school teachers in Columbia, Missouri, that was featured in an article in the <i>Columbia Daily Tribune</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported on the Crown/Merrill Dining Hall being named the first "certified green restaurant" in the city of Santa Cruz, thanks to the work of food service manager <strong>Clint Jefferies</strong>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Inside Bay Area</i> and the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> noted that theater arts professor <b>Paul Whitworth</b> is stepping down as artistic director of <strong>Shakespeare</strong> <strong>Santa</strong> <strong>Cruz</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <strong>Donna Haraway</strong> in an article about DNA testing for dogs to reveal pedigree and debilitating diseases.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported that <strong>Wei Wei</strong>, a librarian at the UCSC Science &amp; Engineering Library, has been honored as a 2007 Fellow of the Special Libraries Association (SLA) for service to the profession.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden">
</form>



</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/07-08/07-02/news.asp "Permalink to news")
