---
layout: post
title: "Chancellor selection committee meets on campus"
author: Public Information Department
post_id: 6054
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The committee advising UC President Robert Dynes on the selection of a permanent chancellor for UCSC held its first meeting on Monday, April 9.
</p>
<p>
  The committee met all day at UCSC's University Center, hearing from a wide variety of campus, community and alumni representatives.
</p>
<p>
  Dynes opened the meeting by outlining the charge to the committee. That was followed by a separate session with Acting Chancellor George Blumenthal and Executive Vice Chancellor David Kliger, and additional sessions with campus administrators and UC Academic Senate leaders.
</p>
<p>
  In the afternoon, the committee met with deans and provosts, community leaders, staff and faculty representatives and students.
</p>
<p>
  The committee is composed of five regents, and representatives from students, staff, faculty, alumni and and the UC Santa Cruz Foundation.
</p>
<p>
  During the morning, a group of about a dozen protesters demonstrated in support of increased wages for custodial and food service workers. Blumenthal spoke with the group for about 20 minutes. Assistant Chancellor Ashish Sahni also spoke with the protesters and carried their message regarding wages to Dynes inside the meeting.
</p>
<p>
  Blumenthal has set aside campus funds for raises, pending resolution of UC-wide negotiations with the union that represents the employees. Recent agreements have been reached with lower-wage clerical and nonrepresented workers on campus.
</p>
<p>
  The chancellor selection process is expected to last through the summer.<br>
</p>
[source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/06-07/04-09/search.asp "Permalink to search")
