---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3568
images:
---

<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> appeared in a front-page <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the closing of the Salz tannery.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> ran a story about research by graduate student <b>Lesley Perg</b> (now at the University of Hannover) and professor of Earth sciences <b>Robert Anderson</b> on the age of the marine terraces near Santa Cruz, which has implications for earthquake frequency.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Veronica Tonay</b> in psychology has fielded a number of media calls since September 11, including one from the Associated Press about dreams--and nightmares--people are having since the attacks. An Ohio radio station and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also called Tonay for stories about coping with stress in the wake of the terrorist attacks. The <i>Sentinel</i> also tapped Tonay for a story about kids leaving home for college. . . . Speaking of dreams, <b>Bill Domhoff's</b> dream research was mentioned in the <i>New York Times.</i> DreamBank, his online database of nearly 10,000 dreams, made the cut in a recent "Online Diary" column.
</p>
<p>
  Also in psychology, <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> did another 9/11-related interview with the <i>Los Angeles Times,</i> this time on how to promote democracy in nondemocratic nations. He also penned a sharply worded op-ed for <i>Newsday</i> about the risks of censoring the words of Osama bin Laden.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Griggs</b> and graduate student <b>Kiki Runyan</b> were featured in a <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> story about shoreline erosion and beach restoration projects.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Wellman's</b> expertise on racism was apparent in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about negative attitudes toward Chinese Americans.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lora Martin,</b> director of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center, was a guest on the KUSP Radio program <i>Talk of the Bay.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Chronicle of Higher Education</i> cited work by sociology instructor <b>Mike Males</b> in a recent article about violent crime, and Males wrote an opinion piece for <i>LA Weekly</i> on the same topic.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a> END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/12-03/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
