---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2102
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Share your vision--join in planning for the 2001 Women at Work Retreat</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The first planning meeting for the 2001 Women at Work Retreat will be held on Tuesday, February 6, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Third World Lounge, upstairs at the Student Center. The retreat will be held May 24-25 at the St. Francis Retreat Center in San Juan Bautista. This year's theme is "2001: A Work Odyssey--Exploring Community." Interested but can't make the meeting? Call Connie Croker at (831) 459-2713 for more information.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Change in procedures for Interlibrary Loan</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The University Library is changing procedures for borrowing from UC Berkeley and the Northern Regional Library Facility (NRLF). All loans from UCB and NRLF will be handled through the Interlibrary Loan office the same way books are borrowed from the other UC campuses. To complete the transition, the UCSC Library needs currently loaned materials to be returned by March 2001. These are books with a "blue strap" attached to the front binding. Materials with the "yellow strap" (loaned under other ILL systems) are not affected. For more information, contact Deborah Turner, head of access services, at (831) 459-5114.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Enjoy a relaxing massage</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The Holistic Program is once again offering lunch-break chair massages from some of the program's top students at several campus locations. Massages are 20 minutes long, cost $10, and will be offered on February 8, 15, and 22 and March 8. For more information or to reserve a spot, call (831) 459-2806.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">UCSC Retirees Association</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Retired staffers can keep in touch by joining the 150-member UCSC Retirees Association, which meets the first Tuesday of every month at the Women's Center (Cardiff House). The next meeting is Tuesday, February 6, at 1 p.m. Members are active volunteers, offering their services to on-campus offices; as docents at the Arboretum, Ano Nuevo, and Long Marine Lab; and with various projects. The group, which formed in 1989, is part of the Council of University of California Retirees Associations, made up of representatives from each of the UC campus retiree associations and the Office of the President. Their purpose is to act as an advocacy group, both for the university and for retirees' needs, by monitoring changes in benefit proposals and making recommendations for improving those issues affecting annuitants. All retired staff members are eligible. For more information, call Barbara Dileanis at (831) 426-7653.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Openings in Recreation Department classes</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000"><b>Sky Phenomena &amp; Atmospheric Wonder</b>, a slide show and lecture presented by Joe Jordan, will take place on Tuesday, February 6, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. Jordan will show slides of many beautiful natural optical phenomena, from the common to the exotic. This is an invitation to observe and understand physics in the environment, with such effects as glories and rainbows, sundogs and haloes, corona and aurorae, mirages and the "green flash." Cost is $5/UCSC students, $8/general. For more information, call (831) 459-2806.</font>
</p>
<p>
  <font color="#000000"><b>Herbal Repertoire,</b> taught by Jeanine Pollak, who also teaches in the Holistic Health Program, explores the properties and uses of popular herbs such as: echinacea, golden seal, ginko, etc. Learn how to effectively decide what herbs to use when, how to make balanced formulas, and primary actions and potential side effects. The class is on Wednesday, February 7, from 7 to 10 p.m. in the OPERS Conference Room, East Field House. Cost is $17 for non-rec card holders. For more information, call (831) 459-2806.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Wilderness First Aid,</b> taught by the staff of the Wilderness Medicine Institute, will take place on Saturday and Sunday, February 17 and 18, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Stevenson 175, Stevenson College. This course is used by many organizations to introduce first aid and long-term patient care to trip leaders, guides, and rescue-team members. Topics include patient assessment, shock, soft tissue injuries, fractures, dislocations, hypothermia, heat illness, and altitude sickness. Emphasis is placed on principles of treatment and decision making, not memorization of lists. Sign up in advance. Cost is $120 for non-UCSC students. For more information, call (831) 459-2806.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Summer jobs for students at the Conference Office</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The Conference and Summer Housing Office will begin recruiting for over 30<br>
  summer student jobs. A variety of positions are available, including leadership opportunities. Students employed by the Conference Office gain real-life experiences by working with worldwide conference guests during the summer quarter. Interested applicants are required to attend an informational employment workshop either on Tuesday, February 6, at the Silverman Lounge, Stevenson College, or on Wednesday, February 7, at the Red Building, College Eight. Both sessions are from 6 to 7 p.m. Look for the logo "GOT WORK?" on posters around campus. For more information, call (831) 459-2611.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Voice and Language Technology Forum</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The <a href="http://www.genmagic.com/vlforum/index.shtml">Voice and Language Technology Forum</a> brings together distinguished academic and professional linguists along with voice technology leaders and industry analysts. The forum was founded in October by General Magic of Sunnyvale in conjunction with faculty from UCSC, UC San Diego, and Stanford University. It sponsors events for linguists and technologists to network and share information regarding language and voice. Founding members include UCSC linguistics professors Geoffrey Pullum, William Ladusaw, and Jorge Hankamer.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/02-05/takenote.html" title="Permalink to takenote">Source</a></p>
