---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2285
images:
---

<p>
  Professor of astronomy and astrophysics <b>Stanford Woosley</b> was quoted in stories about the cosmic origins of gold and silver in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News.</i> Woosley, an expert on the formation of new elements by stars, commented on a new theory proposed by other researchers.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of physics <b>Michael Dine</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> article about so-called dark energy in the universe. Dine commented that new findings about the rate of expansion of the universe had theoretical physicists scrambling to find an explanation.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>New York Times</i> also ran a story about research on wandering albatrosses by research biologist <b>Scott Shaffer</b> and professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Dan Costa.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about a new sustainable business practices award program developed by UCSC student interns while they were working for the Sustainable Business Institute in Los Gatos. <b>Caroline Berger</b>, internship coordinator for the Environmental Studies Department, and student interns <b>Becky Zito, Lev Melodyev,</b> and <b>Natasha Starz</b> were quoted in the article, <b><br>
  <br></b>Associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Peter Raimondi</b> was interviewed on KLIV radio about his research on coastal ecosystems. His co-investigator, assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Mark Carr,</b> discussed their research on KSCO radio.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> did a story recently on the women's water polo program and new head coaches <b>Alan Cima</b> and <b>Randy Whitchurch;</b> sophomore <b>Andrea Durbiano</b> was pictured, and seniors <b>Dana Blankinship</b> and <b>Maria Zavala</b> were quoted in the story.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/04-16/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
