---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3398
images:
---

<p>
  The terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C., prompted media calls to several UCSC faculty members, including psychology's <b>Elliot Aronson</b>, who was called by a <i>New York Times</i> reporter. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> immediately tapped political scientists <b>Ronnie Lipschutz</b> and <b>Dan Wirls</b>, as well as political economist <b>Alan Richards</b>, for insights into the tragic events. Lipschutz and Richards appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay,</i> and Lipschutz and economist <b>David Kaun</b> appeared on BTU-FM. On other subjects, Kaun spent an hour with host Mort Mecklosky on WUSB-FM, the SUNY at Stony Brook radio station, discussing the Bush administration's economic policies. Kaun was also interviewed by Max Prinzal of KPFA news on the same subject.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> assistant professor of Earth sciences, was a guest on National Public Radio's "Talk of the Nation/Science Friday," discussing how to defend the Earth against collisions with asteroids.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> figured prominently in the <i>Santa Cruz</i> <i>Sentinel'</i>s recent coverage of the loss of manufacturing jobs locally, and she followed that up with an appearance on KSCO Radio. . . . Speaking of jobs, <b>Dana Frank</b> of American studies published an op-ed on Labor Day in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about the state of the labor movement in the country, and she also appeared on Santa Cruz community television. Her new book, <i>Three Strikes,</i> made the "Hot Type" section of the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> and was reviewed by the <i>Chicago Tribune.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Michael Urban</b> appeared twice on CNN in conjunction with the August anniversary of the 1991 coup in Russia. He also appeared on Russian radio's "A Foreign Body" show, an hour-long broadcast that invites foreign guests to discuss Russia "through the eyes of a foreigner."<br>
  <br>
  The tsunami research of geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> continued to garner news coverage. Ward was interviewed on CNN about his recent analysis of the potential for a volcanic eruption to generate a tsunami in the Atlantic Ocean, and reports of his findings ran in many newspapers, including the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> and the <i>Financial Times</i> of London. Also, the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> ran a story about Ward's research on the potential for an undersea landslide to generate a tsunami in Monterey Bay.
</p>
<p>
  Educational Partnership Center director <b>Carrol Moran</b> and students from the Early Academic Outreach Program appeared on KUSP Radio.<br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-17/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
