---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3418
images:
---

<p>
  The dedication of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center's new headquarters building complex at the former Fort Ord was covered by KION and KSBW television news and by the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey Herald,</i> and <i>Salinas Californian.</i> Center director <b>Lora Martin</b> was quoted in the stories.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>Fred Lieberman</b> was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about the fact that "God Bless America" is being sung much more than the national anthem, with its images of "bombs bursting in air." "It's a combination of timing and psychological fit," said Lieberman.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Barbara Rogoff</b> penned a piece for the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> on the value of narrative evaluations over letter grades when it comes to assessing a student's actual learning.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> professor of Earth sciences and director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in a news story in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about research by other scientists on how waves damage sea walls.
</p>
<p>
  In an article about a new book that asserts that American parents are spoiling children, the <i>Star Tribune</i> quoted sociology lecturer <b>Mike Males</b>, author of <i>The Scapegoat Generation,</i> who disagreed, saying most teens are doing well. Males also authored an opinion piece that appeared in the <i>Wichita Eagle,</i> arguing that critical judgments older generations make about younger ones are unproductive and often inaccurate.
</p>
<p>
  Research by education's <b>June Gordon</b> was cited in a <i>Phi Delta Kappan</i> article about the small number of Asian Americans who pursue teaching careers.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> was quoted in an Associated Press story about California's unemployment rate in August.
</p>
<p>
  Discoveries by amateur archaeologist and assistant dean of the Arts Division <b>Keith Muscutt</b> were covered in <i>the San Diego Union-Tribune.</i><br>
  <br>
  <b>John Pearse,</b> professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in an article in <i>E</i> magazine about the threats to Pacific tide pool life.<br>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/09-24/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
