---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2177
images:
---

<p>
  A ceremony celebrating the newly refurbished blue whale skeleton at Long Marine Lab was covered by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> radio station KSCO, and TV stations KION, KSBW, and KSMS. Campus veterinarian <b>Dave Casper,</b> Seymour Center director <b>Julie Barrett Heffington,</b> and youth programs manager <b>Kevin Keedy</b> were among those featured in the coverage. In addition, a TV crew from Sacramento station KOVR was at Long Marine Lab recently to get footage of the whale skeleton and to interview researcher <b>Baldo Marinovic</b> for a special program on whales.<br>
  <br>
  Coverage of the February 28 earthquake in the Seattle area on local TV station KSBW included an interview with <b>Justin Revenaugh,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about the presentations by UCSC researchers at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in San Francisco. Featured in the story were astronomers <b>Jerry Nelson, Michael Bolte, Douglas N. C. Lin, Garth Illingworth, David Koo,</b> and <b>Puragra Guhathakurta,</b> and professor of physics <b>Joel Primack.<br>
  <br></b>Professor of physics <b>Michael Dine</b> was quoted in an article about efforts to understand the difference between matter and antimatter. The article appeared in ScienceNow, the online news service of <i>Science</i> magazine.<br>
  <br>
  Professor emeritus of biology <b>John Pearse</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about invasive nonnative species in Elkhorn Slough.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about <b>Charles McDowell,</b> professor of computer science, who was named a Carnegie Scholar for 2001-02.<br>
  <br>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/03-05/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
