---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2077
images:
---

<p>
  The campus has enjoyed several major "media hits" recently, including <b>Daniel Press</b> in environmental studies, who made a case for residential solar panels in an op-ed that appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Research on minke whales by professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Daniel Costa</b> and graduate student <b>Jason Gedamke</b> is featured in the February issue of <i>National Geographic.</i> In the magazine's "Update from the Field" section on National Geographic-sponsored research, a striking photo spread across two pages shows Gedamke diving alongside a dwarf minke whale.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the New Teacher Center participated in a post-inauguration panel discussion on KGO-TV about the future of education.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie's</b> recent media exposure included the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i>, which covered the recent decline in self-employment.
</p>
<p>
  Research on toxic algal blooms by <b>Mary Silver,</b> professor of ocean sciences, was the subject of stories that appeared in the <i>Monterey County Herald, San Jose Mercury News,</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Donald Matthews, visiting professor in American studies, was featured in an article regarding race and divisive local view points in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>. <i><br>
  <br></i>Sociology's <b>Dane Archer</b> stepped up to the plate and did an interview about the power crisis for National Public Radio's "Morning Edition"--from Hawaii, where he's on leave.
</p>
<p>
  Political scientist <b>Peter Euben</b> participated in a recent three-day "Hollywood ethics" conference, covered by the <i>Los Angeles Times</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies penned a letter about U.S. relations with Cuba that was published in the <i>New York Times</i>.
</p>
<p>
  A crew flew in from Germany's Spiegel TV to interview psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> about the Stanford Prison Experiment and treatment of inmates.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Bill Domhoff</b> continues to research dreams and was quoted recently in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article.<br>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-29/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
