---
layout: post
title: "Take Note"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2021
images:
---

<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Register for winter recreation activities</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Pick up a copy of the <i>Winter 2001 Recreation, Intramural and Sports<br>
  Guide</i> to see the extensive selection of activities for winter quarter. Recreation registration for students begins on Tuesday, January 9, from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the Recreation Office, East Field House. Recreation registration for staff, faculty, and community members begins the next day, January 10, at 9 a.m. at the Recreation Office. Phone registration begins Thursday, January 11, at 9 a.m. Call 459-2806 to pay by phone.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Call for UCRS Advisory Board candidates</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Employees who are active members of the University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP) but not members of the Academic Senate are invited to run for election to the University of California Retirement System (UCRS) Advisory Board. The term of the elected candidate will be April 1, 2001, through June 30, 2004. Interested candidates must submit a brief biographical statement and a petition signed by at least 50 active UCRP members who are not Academic Senate members. Nomination packets are available from the campus Benefits Office. UC HR/Benefits must receive completed nomination packets by Friday, January 19, 2001. <a href="http://www.ucop.edu/bencom/news/ucrsboard2.html">Full text of memo</a>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Title IX Advisory Council members</font> <font color="#003399">for 2000-01 announced</font>
</h4>
<p>
  The 2000-01 Title IX Advisory Council membership is as follows:
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Ellen Borger, assistant to the dean, Social Sciences, chair (fall),
  </li>
  <li>Gwendolyn Mink, professor of politics, chair (winter, spring),
  </li>
  <li>Campbell Leaper, associate dean of Social Sciences &amp; Colleges Nine and Ten, and associate professor of psychology,
  </li>
  <li>Sandra Chung, professor of linguistics,
  </li>
  <li>Antoinette Gonzalez, graduate assistant, Graduate Studies,
  </li>
  <li>Andrea Costello, undergraduate student, Stevenson College,
  </li>
  <li>Susan Taylor, administrative assistant to the assistant chancellor for HR, staff to the committee.
  </li>
  <li>Graduate student position is open.
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  For information on the role of the Title IX Advisory Council please see the<br>
  UCSC <i>Sex Offense Policy and Procedures for Reports of Sexual Assault(s)</i><br>
  (Section VI. page 10) <i>and Sexual Harassment</i> (Section III.C, page 19 &amp;<br>
  Section V., page 21). This information is also available on the web at<br>
  <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/title9-sh">www2.ucsc.edu/title9-sh</a>.
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Drop-in fitness classes</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">Drop-in fitness classes will start in January, call 459-2806 for more details. Classes will be held from noon to 1 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays at the East Field House.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">New GSA officers selected</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">The Graduate Student Association has selected new officers for 2000-01.</font>
</p>
<ul>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">President: Lee Ritscher</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">Internal Vice President: Tina Chin</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">External Vice President: Heather DeShon</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">Secretary: Dave Machledt</font>
  </li>
  <li>
    <font color="#000000">Treasurer: Jesse Matonak</font>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>
  <font color="#000000">The Graduate Student Association can be reached at</font> <a href="mailto:gsa@cats.ucsc.edu">gsa@cats.ucsc.edu</a><font color="#000000">.</font>
</p>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">UCSC Forum on Community Television</font>
</h4>
<p>
  Below is the broadcast schedule for UCSC Forum for January. Shows air on Community Television, Channel 72, at 8 p.m. Sundays, with a rebroadcast at 4:30 p.m. Wednesdays.
</p>
<ul>
  <li>January 7: "Awakening": A new film by Chip Lord (repeat) (rebroadcast January 10)
  </li>
  <li>January 14: Angela Oh on Racial Politics (repeat) (rebroadcast January 17)
  </li>
  <li>January 21: Ravi Rajan: "Modernizing Nature: Tropical Forests, Scientific Experts, and the Contested Legacy of British Colonial Ecodevelopment: 1800-2000" (repeat) (rebroadcast January 24)
  </li>
  <li>January 28: Angela Davis: "The Prisoner Exchange: The Underside of Civil Rights" (repeat) (rebroadcast January 31)
  </li>
</ul>
<h4>
  <font color="#003399">Construction update</font>
</h4>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> is now providing monthly updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.</a>
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/takenote.html" title="Permalink to takenote">Source</a></p>
