---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2014
images:
---

<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> and professor of computer science <b>David Haussler</b> were both quoted in news coverage of UCSC's participation in the new California Institutes for Science and Innovation. Media coverage included stories in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and on KSCO radio.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> ran a story on the proliferation of book series published by university presses that included the work of Humanities Dean <b>Wlad Godzich</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ellen Moir</b>, director of the New Teacher Center, appeared in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about the high costs faced by teachers who want to buy into the state retirement system after moving to California from out of state.<br>
  <br>
  Professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Daniel Costa</b> was quoted in the <i>Monterey County Herald</i> and the <i>Salinas Californian</i> in stories about the "Tagging of Pacific Pelagics" project involving researchers at several institutions. The group plans to tag large numbers sea creatures to learn more about their ecology and migration patterns.
</p>
<p>
  The work of <b>Alva Noe,</b> assistant professor of philosophy, was discussed in an article on issues in the theory of perception in the British magazine <i>New Scientist.</i><br>
  <br>
  Professor emeritus of biology <b>Burney Le Boeuf</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>San Francisco Examiner</i> on the effects of global warming on the ocean ecosystem.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> article on the recent decline in self-employment. . . . He was also interviewed by CNET Radio on the same subject. . . . And Fairlie's work examining whether immigrant businesses are displacing businesses owned by native-born Americans was discussed in an article in <i>Business Week</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was quoted in a pre-election Associated Press story about the failure of political commercials to inform voters about the content of ballot initiatives. The article appeared in the <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i>, the <i>Redding</i> <i>Record-Searchlight</i>, the <i>Fairfield</i> <i>Republic</i>, and other newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research on coastal erosion by professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Griggs,</b> postdoctoral researcher <b>Curt Storlazzi,</b> and graduate student <b>Cope Willis.</b> The researchers examined the influence of El Nino weather patterns on coastal storm damage and erosion of beaches and seacliffs.<br>
  <br>
  On the final round of the television game show <i>Jeopardy</i> that aired December 15th, the answer was "Made available for download by scientists at UCSC, the 739 megabyte file of this project consists of A's, T's, G's and C's." All three contestants, including a cooking instructor from Chicago and a schoolteacher from Mississippi, knew the question was "What is the Human Genome Project?" Professor of computer science <b>David Haussler</b> leads UCSC's involvement in this international project.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC Librarian <b>Allan Dyson</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> giving a suggestion for a unique gift idea: Dyson recommended a Friends of the UCSC Library membership for the holidays--a great way to get 1.3 million books for only $35.<i><br></i><br>
  <b>Brian Latta,</b> field biologist with the Predatory Bird Research Group, was interviewed by BBC Radio in November for the program <i>Science Adventurers,</i> which encourages people, and especially kids, to become involved in science by demonstrating that it is not all lab coats, chemicals, and computer terminals.
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Gary Miles</b> was quoted in an article on aging and extreme sports in the <i>San Francisco Examiner</i> in December. Miles has been surfing since the age of 38, and said he feels he is better at the sport now at age 60.<i><br></i><br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/01-01/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
