---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3462
images:
---

<p>
  In the wake of the September 11 attacks, many campus scholars are sharing their time and expertise with the public. Historian <b>Terry Burke</b> was interviewed by the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> for a story about the use of the word "terrorist" in conjunction with the attacks, and he also made a case in the <i>Monitor</i> for more in-depth media coverage of the diversity of Middle Eastern societies and cultures. . . . <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies appeared on Minnesota Public Radio's "Marketplace Morning Report" to discuss the role oil will play in the way the war on terrorism is fought. . . . <b>Barbara Epstein</b> of the History of Consciousness Department was quoted in a <i>San Antonio Express-News</i> story about youth reaction to world events. . . . Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> has fielded numerous calls about war propaganda from media outlets, including the <i>Baltimore Sun</i>, the <i>Los Angeles Times</i>, the <i>Kansas City Star</i>, the <i>Toronto Star</i>, and the <i>Sacramento Bee</i>. He discussed public reaction to the attacks with the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, and he talked about research directions for psychologists in the aftermath of September 11 with the <i>Monitor</i>, which is published by the American Psychological Association. . . . Sociologist <b>Paul Lubeck</b> made a second appearance on KUSP's "Talk of the Bay" program to discuss diversity in Islam, and political scientist <b>Mike Urban</b> discussed Russia's role in U.S. antiterrorist strategy on BBC Radio.
</p>
<p>
  Regional media converged on Long Marine Lab to cover the arrival of a sea otter named Morgan, who has joined another otter, Wick, in a research program headed by associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Terrie Williams</b> and graduate student <b>Laura Yeates.</b> Trainers <b>Brett Long</b> and <b>Traci Fink</b> were also featured in the coverage, which included TV stations KSBW and KION, the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Francisco Chronicle,</i> and <i>Monterey Herald.</i><br>
  <br>
  <b>Mark Carr,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in the <i>Santa Barbara News Press</i> in an article about a controversial plan to convert old oil rigs into artificial reefs. Carr coauthored a report from the UC Marine Council on "Ecological Issues Related to Decommissioning of California's Offshore Production Platforms."<br>
  <br>
  Assistant professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug</b> was widely quoted in stories about new images of the asteroid Eros obtained by the NEAR spacecraft. Asphaug wrote a commentary accompanying the publication of the images in the journal <i>Nature.</i> He was quoted in stories from the <i>Washington Post, New York Times, USA Today,</i> the <i>Independent</i> (London), Associated Press, U.P.I., Agence France Presse, and <i>New Scientist</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Rob Fairlie</b> of economics was interviewed by a reporter from the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> about immigrant entrepreneurs, and a reporter from <i>American Demographics</i> magazine quoted him on recent trends in self-employed business owners.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a> END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/10-15/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
