---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2405
images:
---

<p>
  Sociologist <b>Marcia Millman's</b> media run with her book about romance and the movies continued with interviews for the <i>New York Post,</i> the <i>San Francisco Chronicle,</i> <i>VIVA,</i> the Sunday magazine of Argentina's largest Spanish-language newspaper, the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and on KUSP Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Peter Raimondi,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was interviewed by CNN about his evaluation of the environmental impacts of Duke Energy's plan to expand the Moss Landing power plant.
</p>
<p>
  Environmental studies graduate student <b>Jonathan Scheuer</b> was featured in a <i>Honolulu Star-Bulletin</i> story about homeowners battling an invasion by wild pigs.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Peyman Milanfar,</b> assistant professor of electrical engineering, was interviewed by CNET TV about his work on a "superresolution" technique that turns blurry images into sharp pictures. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> also ran a story about his research.
</p>
<p>
  Agroecology's <b>Sean Swezey</b> was featured on National Public Radio's <i>Morning Edition</i> program about UC Davis's role in California agriculture. Swezey, director of UC's sustainable agriculture program, highlighted the challenges facing the state's ag industry.<br>
  <br>
  The Japan Broadcasting Corporation (NHK) interviewed <b>David Koo,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics, and <b>Joel Primack,</b> professor of physics, for the TV series <i>Space Millennium.</i><br>
  <br>
  <b>Slawek Tulaczyk,</b> assistant professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about changes in the Antarctic ice sheets and global warming.<br>
  <br>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/00-01/05-28/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
