---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2915
images:
---

<p>
  Research by <b>Terrie Williams,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, on the biomechanics of swimming in dolphins was featured in <i>Natural History</i> magazine. Williams was also quoted recently in a <i>New York Times</i> article about temperature regulation in dolphins.
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Craig Haney</b> was quoted in several publications that covered the relocation of the Cary Stayner murder trial, and the Associated Press picked up on his participation in an expert discussion of the death penalty that was convened by the Nevada legislature.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> continues to field media queries on the Argentine economic crisis, appearing most recently on Minnesota Public Radio's <i>Marketplace</i> program.<br>
  <br>
  The completion of a new spectrograph built at UCSC for the Keck Telescopes was covered by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>West Hawaii Today.</i> The articles included quotes from <b>Sandra Faber,</b> University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, <b>Joseph Miller,</b> director of UCO/Lick Observatory, and <b>David Cowley,</b> manager of Lick Laboratories.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Forrest Robinson</b> of American studies has been quoted widely, including by the Associated Press and in the <i>Grand Forks Herald,</i> about the appearance of vanity license plates that memorialize the attacks of September 11.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Dallas Morning News</i> about the earliest stars in the universe included quotes from UCSC astronomers <b>Piero Madau</b> and <b>Stan Woosley.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Bill Domhoff</b> is featured in the March issue of <i>Discover</i> magazine in a "Discover Dialogue" column headlined "Freud-Debunker Bill Domhoff."<b><br>
  <br></b>Research on the disappearance of northern fur seals from central California 1,000 years ago by <b>Paul Koch,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, and <b>Diane Gifford-Gonzalez,</b> professor of anthropology, was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story that was picked up by the Associated Press newswire.
</p>
<p>
  Hist con's <b>Barbara Epstein</b> was quoted in a <i>Village Voice</i> article about the anarchist movement.
</p>
<p>
  UCSC student <b>Zack Emery</b> penned a pithy first-person account of his work in Hollywood on the movie <i>Slackers</i> for the <i>Los Angeles Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Cope</b>'s work in experimental music got a nice plug on National Public Radio's <i>Weekend Edition</i> program.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about <b>Stephen Thorsett,</b> associate professor of astronomy and astrophysics, and his recent talk to the Santa Cruz Astronomy Club.<br>
  <br>
  Research on embedded software by assistant professor of computer engineering <b>Luca de Alfaro</b> was covered by the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.<br>
  <br></i>Professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Glatzmaier</b> was quoted in a <i>Sentinel</i> story about a new supercomputer recently installed on campus. The story included a photo of Glatzmaier, assistant professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug,</b> and computer specialist <b>Lee Rottler</b> with the new machine, which will be used for research in geophysics and astrophysics.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> turned to anthropologist <b>Triloki Pandey</b> for information about Makar Sankranti, an annual Indian harvest festival that was celebrated this year in Fremont.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/02-18/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
