---
layout: post
title: "UCSC faculty will mentor new Ph.D. recipients"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3920
images:
---

<p class="sectionheadblack">
  Program provides training and support
</p>
<p>
  Beginning July 1, several UCSC faculty members will become mentors to new UCSC Faculty Fellows. The fellows program will provide new UC Ph.D. recipients with training and support, as they pursue their research and provide instruction that will help the campus accommodate increasing numbers of undergraduates.<br>
</p>
<p>
  As mentors, established faculty will help seven fellows develop undergraduate courses, hone their instructional skills, and conduct research.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The new UCSC Faculty Fellows, with the names of participating faculty mentors, are:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Monique Balbuena (Literature): Balbuena will receive her Ph.D. this June from UC Berkeley and will work with Professors Murray Baumgarten and Norma Klahn.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Julie Figueroa (Latin American and Latino Studies): Figueroa received her Ph.D. from UC Berkeley and will work with Professor Aida Hurtado.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Christopher Hom (Philosophy): Hom will receive his Ph.D. this June from UC Irvine and will work with Professors Sandra Chung and Richard Otte.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Ruth Langridge (Politics): Langridge will receive her Ph.D. this June from UC Berkeley and will work with Associate Professor Daniel Wirls.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Claudia Lavenant (Sociology): Lavenant received her Ph.D. from UC Irvine and will work with Associate Professor Hiroshi Fukurai.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Jennifer McIntosh (Mathematics): McIntosh received her Ph.D. from UC Irvine and will work with Professor Anthony Tromba.<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Avi Tchamni (Music): Tchamni will receive his Ph.D. this June from UC San Diego and will work with Professor David Cope.<br>
  <br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-12/fellows.html" title="Permalink to fellows">Source</a></p>
