---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3255
images:
---

<p>
  Psychology's <b>Jean Fox Tree</b> fielded a media call about her research on conversational speech from <i>abcnews.com</i> while on sabbatical in Scotland even as reporters from the <i>National Post</i> in Toronto and KGO Radio in San Jose scrambled to cover the story. Fox Tree's latest findings were picked up by <i>Nature,</i> which triggered the media flurry.
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b>'s speech to the American Association for the Advancement of Science was quoted in a <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> article. Professor of computer science <b>Ira Pohl</b> was quoted in the same article, about the possibility that some international students will be barred from studying in certain academic fields.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, was so busy with media interviews she could hardly get any work done for several days after announcing the results of her research on expected changes in California's climate due to global warming. Media coverage included stories in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> (which also referred to her findings in an editorial), <i>Sacramento Bee, Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Daily News, Stockton Record, Modesto Bee, Contra Costa Times,</i> <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and the Associated Press and Reuters news wires. Sloan also did interviews with KRON TV, KPIX TV, KION TV, KSBW TV, KCBA TV, KCBS Radio, KGO Radio, and KFBK Radio (Sacramento). Stories also appeared online on <i>CNN.com</i> and <i>ScienceNOW.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jenny Draper,</b> one of the first graduates of UCSC's bioinformatics major, a Dean's Award recipient, and a participant in the Undergraduate Research Poster Symposium, was interviewed on KSCO Radio about her achievements in science. Draper was also the subject of <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article on her science studies and her work in science illustration.
</p>
<p>
  The grand opening of <b>Life Lab's</b> new children's Garden Classroom drew nice coverage from the <i>San Jose Mercury News,</i> KCBA TV, and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Karen Ottemann,</b> assistant professor of environmental toxicology, was interviewed on KSCO Radio about her research on ulcer-causing bacteria.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year</a><a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index"></a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-10/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
