---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4330
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  A feature in <i>Discover</i> magazine on the 50 most important women in science included University Professor of astronomy <b>Sandra Faber,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>Terrie Williams,</b> and professor of Earth sciences <b>Marcia McNutt.</b> Stories noting the UCSC faculty who were featured in the magazine appeared in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Contra Costa Times</i>, and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about the impact of global warming on California water supplies featured comments from <b>Brent Haddad</b>, associate professor of environmental studies, and <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  KSCO Radio covered the <b>New Teacher Center</b>'s $7.5 million NSF-funded project to establish an "e-mentoring" system for beginning science teachers. The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> made note of the center's recent reception in San Jose that honored new teachers, and a crew from KRON-TV interviewed NTC director <b>Ellen Moir</b>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Research by the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group on ways to prevent golden eagles and other raptors from being electrocuted by power lines was covered in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and on KCBS Radio. Researchers <b>Brian Walton</b> and <b>Brian Latta</b> were featured in the coverage.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Marine ecologist <b>Mark Carr</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about newly established marine reserves around the Channel Islands. Carr serves on a scientific advisory panel on the reserves.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Research on long-term memory in sea lions by marine biologist <b>Ronald Schusterman</b> and postdoctoral researcher <b>Colleen Reichmuth Kastak</b> received widespread coverage. After stories appeared in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine and on the Reuters wire service, the researchers were contacted for interviews by BBC Radio, CNN, <i>National Geographic</i> TV, and Discovery Channel Canada.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Cal State Northridge's radio station picked up on a new report about the future of virtual education for high schools that has been endorsed by <b>Francisco Hernandez,</b> vice chancellor of Student Affairs. Hernandez also received coverage in the <i>Boston Globe</i> and <i>Oakland Tribune</i> for his role launching a new UC-sponsored free online test-preparation course.
</p>
<p>
  Stories about a project led by assistant professor of astronomy <b>Greg Laughlin</b> and NASA astronomer <b>Tim Castellano,</b> in which amateur astronomers are being encouraged to conduct observations to help detect planets around other stars, ran in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Christian Science Monitor.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Frank Galuszka</b>, professor of art, authored an opinion piece that ran in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the "uglification" of Santa Cruz.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Social psychologist <b>Tom Pettigrew</b> was featured on a KSBW-TV segment about hate and conflict.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the online course taught by <b>Tara Madhyastha,</b> assistant professor of computer engineering.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Tim Tinker,</b> a graduate student in biology, was quoted in the <i>San Luis Obispo Tribune</i> in a story about Tinker's research on sea otters.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Monterey Herald</i> about the dredging of the Moss Landing Harbor included comments from <b>Gary Griggs,</b> professor of Earth sciences and director of the Institute of Marine Sciences.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> covered a public forum on Iraq in which <b>Alan Richards</b> of environmental studies participated.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-04/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
