---
layout: post
title: "Exhibit offers glimpse into the world of high school art classes"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: Ann M. Gibb
post_id: 4213
images:
---

<p>
  What is it like to guide the artistic expression of high school students across a school year? "It's like 90 minds a day," said Katie Harper, an art teacher at Santa Cruz High School for more than 20 years.
</p>
<p>
  Harper's remark inspired the title for "Ninety Minds a Day" the new exhibit at the Eloise Pickard Smith Gallery on the campus of the University of California, Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  A tribute to art teachers who inspire, motivate, and challenge the creative spirit of their students, the exhibit features work by teachers and invited students from Santa Cruz, Loma Prieta, and Soquel High Schools, and Mission Hill and Branciforte Junior High Schools. "Ninety Minds a Day" opens with a public reception on September 29 from 2 to 4 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  "Students live in a dynamic visual world," said Linda Pope, curator of the Smith Gallery. "Art teachers are challenged to create a studio environment where students not only have the opportunity to acquire basic skills, but also explore new realms for artistic expression."
</p>
<p>
  "For many students, the arts will not only be where they find employment beyond school, but where they will find meaning and personal satisfaction in their lives," said Ziggy Rendler-Bregman, arts coordinator for the Santa Cruz City Schools.
</p>
<p>
  "Ninety Minds A Day" is a rare opportunity for high school students to exhibit in a professional art gallery, and for the public to step into the world of high school art classes. The look and substance of classes is changing, in part because new University of California admissions requirements include a full year of course work in the arts.
</p>
<p>
  The exhibiting students and their teachers will be present at the opening reception. The Eloise Pickard Smith Gallery is located at Cowell College. Regular gallery hours are Tuesday through Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information call (831) 459-2953.
</p>
<p>
  <br>
  END PAGE CONTENT<br>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"> <input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="Email this story to a friend">
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-23/exhibit.html" title="Permalink to exhibit">Source</a></p>
