---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2999
images:
---

<p>
  Scientists detected a subtle movement of the flank of the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii, and geophysicist <b>Stephen Ward's</b> commentary on the findings led to widespread media coverage. Ward noted that a complete slope failure on Kilauea would generate a huge tsunami that could devastate the California coast. The story was covered by the <i>New York Times, New York Newsday,</i> the Sydney (Australia) <i>Daily Telegraph,</i> the syndicated column <i>Earthweek: A Diary of the Planet</i> distributed by the <i>Los Angeles Times,</i> and local TV stations KSBW (Ch. 8) and KPIX (Ch. 5).
</p>
<p>
  <b>Dana Frank</b> of American studies discussed the fate of K-Mart on National Public Radio's <i>Talk of the Nation</i> program, which reaches 2.3 million listeners across the country.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies provided valuable context for a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about Oaxacan immigrants and human rights problems.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Garth Illingworth,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in stories in the <i>Houston Chronicle</i> and on <i>CNN.com</i> about a new camera installed by astronauts on the Hubble Space Telescope. Illingworth serves as the new camera's deputy principal investigator.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of computer science <b>David Haussler</b> was quoted in recent stories about the human genome in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and on <i>Salon.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of history <b>Dilip Basu</b> was cited in a <i>Washington Times</i> story on the Satyajit Ray film retrospective in Washington, D.C.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Tom Pettigrew</b> of psychology was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the division along racial lines of former Enron employees who are seeking varied solutions to their sudden loss of jobs, severance, and savings.
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts professor of dance <b>Mel Wong</b> was the subject of a feature story in the <i>San Jose Mercury News.</i><br>
  <br>
  <b>Mark Carr and Peter Raimondi,</b> both associate professors of ecology and evolutionary biology and principal investigators for the PISCO project (Partnership for Interdisciplinary Studies of Coastal Oceans), were quoted in several stories relating to a recent PISCO symposium. Stories ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey Herald,</i> and <i>Salinas Californian.</i> The researchers also did numerous interviews with local radio stations.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/03-18/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
