---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 2862
images:
---

<p>
  Research on the West Antarctic ice sheet by <b>Slawek Tulaczyk,</b> assistant professor of Earth sciences, received widespread media coverage, including articles in the <i>New York Times, Philadelphia Inquirer, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News, Christian Science Monitor,</i> and <i>The Independent</i> (London). Wire service stories by Associated Press, UPI, and Reuters ran in many other newspapers. Tulaczyk did telephone interviews with UPI, CBC Radio, German public radio, and the Polish national daily newspaper <i>Gazeta Wyborcza.</i> The story was also reported on CNN TV and NPR's <i>Morning Edition.</i>
</p>
<p>
  In the wake of Kmart's bankruptcy filing, the <i>Denver Post</i> looked to American studies professor <b>Dana Frank</b> for comment on the discount chain's strong blue-collar roots.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Terrie Williams,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology and Ida Benson Lynn Professor of Ocean Health, was featured in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about her research on Weddell seals in Antarctica.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle Magazine</i> ran a lengthy <a href="http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/chronicle/archive/2001/12/30/CM213633.DTL">profile</a> of <b>Sarah Gerhardt,</b> a Ph.D. candidate in physical chemistry at UCSC and the first woman to ride the huge waves at Maverick's break off Half Moon Bay. The story was written by alum Louise Rafkin (M.A., literature '81).<br>
  <br>
  Professor of astronomy and astrophysics <b>Douglas Lin</b> was featured in a story in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about planets outside the solar system.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research by astronomer <b>Greg Laughlin</b> on the habitability of a nearby planetary system.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> talked to university archivist <b>Rita Bottoms</b> as part of a story on artist Daniel Stolpe, whose work is held in the Special Collections Archive at McHenry Library.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a> END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/01-28/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
