---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4424
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  More News
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="closure" id="closure"></a>Reminder about winter campus closure
</p>
<p>
  The campus will be closed from Tuesday, December 24, through Wednesday, January 1, nine days in all. Four days are scheduled holidays (December 24, 25, 31, and January 1), two days are weekend days, and the remaining three days (December 26, 27, and 30) are "normal" workdays.<br>
</p>
<p>
  To cover "normal" workdays, staff employees have the option of using vacation, compensatory time off, or leave without pay. Employees without sufficient accumulated vacation are allowed to use up to three days of vacation leave prior to actual accrual.<br>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, contact your service center.<br>
  <a href="#closure"><i>Back to top</i><br></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="toys" id="toys"></a>Final week for Campus Fire Department toy drive
</p>
<p>
  The Fire Department will continue collecting new unwrapped toys for local needy children for the rest of the week. Toys can be dropped off between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the campus Fire Station on Chinquapin Road, across from the Crown/Merrill Apartments, or at the campus Police Station in the H Barn through December 20. For information or for toy pickup, contact Tim Santos at tjsantos@ucsc.edu or (831) 459-3473.<br>
  <a href="#closure"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="conference" id="conference"></a>Conference slated for Cowell in January<br>
</p>
<p>
  An International Interdisciplinary Conference of the Focused Research Activity in Visual and Performance Studies will take place January 4-5 at the Cowell Conference Room on the UCSC campus (Saturday, 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m./Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.).<br>
</p>
<p>
  Titled Post-Ritual: Events/Performances/Art, the conference is sponsored by the UCSC Arts Division, the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, and the Office of the Vice Chancellor of Research. Participants will include UCSC professors Donald Brenneis, Mark Franko, Tyrus Miller, and Catherine Soussloff.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The conference will feature panels on "Bodily Possessions," "Ritual Transmissions," "Ritual Recuperations," and "Ritual/Event/Context." New York University's Richard Schechner will deliver the keynote address.<br>
  For more information, contact Mark Franko at <a href="mailto:mfranko@ucsc.edu">mfranko@ucsc.edu</a> or (831) 459-3121.<br>
  <a href="#closure"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="web" id="web"></a>Staff HR launches new job application web site
</p>
<p>
  Staff Human Resources has launched a new <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/staff_hr/employment/applyeasy.html">Web Employment Application</a> system. This new system provides both on- and off-campus applicants with a fast, easy way to apply for positions at UCSC electronically.
</p>
<p>
  Those interested in applying for a job no longer need to go to the SHR office. They simply review the list of jobs posted on the <a href="http://jobs.ucsc.edu">SHR web site</a>, view the job announcement that interests them, and click the "Apply Now" button to access the Web Employment Application. The applicant then creates a profile, enters their cover letter and/or resume information, and clicks the submit button.
</p>
<p>
  Applicants with a current web browser will be able to save their profile data, eliminating the need to repeatedly complete standard personnel information when applying for different jobs.
</p>
<p>
  For more information contact Lori Castro at (831) 459-2960 or <a href="mailto:lhcastro@ucsc.edu">lhcastro@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#closure"><i>Back to top</i></a><br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="Construction" id="Construction"></a>Construction update
</p>
<p>
  <i>Currents</i> provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="../../construction.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.<br></a><a href="#closure"><i>Back to top</i></a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a><br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-16/morenews.html" title="Permalink to morenews">Source</a></p>
