---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3023
images:
---

<p>
  A new study on the origins of modern mammals in Asia by <b>Paul Koch,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, and graduate student <b>Gabriel Bowen</b> received considerable media coverage. Their findings were reported in <i>Newsday</i> (New York), the <i>Seattle Times, San Francisco Chronicle, Calgary Herald, Toronto Globe and Mail</i> and other newspapers, and on the UPI and AP news wires, as well as <i>Science News</i> magazine and online science news sites such as <i>Scientific American Online</i> and <i>Bio.com.</i> The Discovery Channel (Canada) also ran a news story about the study.<br>
  <br>
  Research by <b>Gregory Laughlin,</b> assistant professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was mentioned in an article in the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> about the search for Earth-like planets outside the solar system.<br>
  <br>
  Assistant professor of Earth sciences <b>Slawek Tulaczyk,</b> an expert on Antarctic ice dynamics, was traveling in southern California when news broke about the sudden collapse of a major ice shelf in Antarctica, but he was able to do telephone interviews with KCBS radio in San Francisco and the White House Staff Office.<br>
  <br>
  <b>Cathy Sandeen,</b> dean of UCSC Extension, was quoted in an article in <i>Silicon Valley Business Ink</i> about the new biotech certificate program UC Santa Cruz Extension is launching this spring. In addition, Sandeen and <b>Bettina Oelke,</b> director of the applied and natural sciences department at UCSC Extension, were quoted in an article in the online publication <i>GenomeWeb News</i> about the timeliness of the new program.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a feature story about lecturer <b>Nancy Abrams,</b> "the singing scientist," and her new CD <i>Alien Wisdom.</i> Abrams co-teaches the "Cosmology and Culture" course with her husband, cosmologist <b>Joel Primack.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/03-25/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
