---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4378
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  History of Consciousness professor <b>Barbara Epstein</b> was quoted in <i>New Statesman</i> about the global justice movement.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> appeared twice in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> recently, first in a story about an inmate hunger strike at Pelican Bay State Prison and then in a <i>Los Angeles Times Magazine</i> story about prison rape.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of physics <b>Bruce Schumm</b> was interviewed on KSCO Radio about a new particle collider being planned for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC).<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Dane Archer</b> was quoted in the <i>Financial Times</i> about the murder rate in the United States.
</p>
<p>
  Astrobiologist <b>David Deamer,</b> a research professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was quoted in an article about extraterrestrial life in the <i>Philadelphia Inquirer.</i> The <i>Inquirer</i> story also ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Steven Vogt,</b> professor of astronomy, was interviewed by the syndicated radio program <i>Earth and Sky</i> for a story about the search for new planets.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> tapped <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies for its four-day series on the "shadow economy" of Silicon Valley, in which the working poor run side businesses to make ends meet.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Sue Carter,</b> associate professor of physics, and <b>Jin Zhang,</b> associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, were featured in an article about solar energy research in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i> Carter was also quoted in a related story in the <i>Sentinel</i> business section.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Rob Fairli</b>e of economics was quoted in <i>Inc.</i> magazine and contributed to a BBC/PBS four-part television series on black America, discussing black business ownership.
</p>
<p>
  Theater arts instructor <b>Patty Gallagher</b> contributed comments analyzing circus as an art form to a <i>San Jose Mercur</i>y article about Cirque du Soleil.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Francisco Hernandez</b> was quoted in a Washington <i>Internet Daily</i> story about the availability of online test preparation.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Angela Davis,</b> professor of history of consciousness, was featured in a <i>Kansas City Star</i> article about a talk she gave at the University of Missouri regarding the prison system.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/11-18/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
