---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4413
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Washington Times</i> discussed the welfare-reform work of <b>Rebecca London,</b> research associate with the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community, in a recent story. . . . Also with CJTC, <b>Manuel Pastor</b> has been quoted several times in <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> stories about the Mayfair neighborhood of San Jose, an immigrant enclave where most residents live paycheck to paycheck. Pastor discussed informal savings clubs, known as tandas, that help residents make up for the lack of institutional banking and neighborhood revitalization in general.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted extensively in a feature article in the Louisville <i>Courier-Journal.</i>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC's role in the sequencing of the mouse genome and comparative analysis of the mouse and human genomes was highlighted in news stories in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Jose Mercury News,</i> and <i>San Francisco Chronicle.</i> <b>David Haussler,</b> director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering (CBSE), and CBSE research scientist <b>Jim Kent</b> were quoted in the stories. Haussler, Kent, and other members of the UCSC genome bioinformatics group were part of a large international consortium of scientists involved in the investigation.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Jean Fox Tree</b>'s work on the role of little words like "uh" and "um" in conversational speech was featured in a <i>Lansing</i> (Michigan) <i>State Journal</i> article.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>Anthony Fink</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Mountain View Voice</i> about a cluster of Parkinson's disease cases in a Mountain View neighborhood. Fink is studying the role of pesticide exposure in Parkinson's disease.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Honolulu Advertiser</i> previewed an upcoming appearance by history of consciousness professor and feminist theorist <b>Donna Haraway</b> at the University of Hawaii.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-09/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
