---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4394
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> about a Congressional hearing at which she testified. The hearing before the House of Representatives Committee on Science dealt with issues relating to scientific research and national security.
</p>
<p>
  Hindi and Urdu lecturer <b>John Mock</b> was quoted in the <i>Atlanta Journal and Constitution,</i> as well as by Cox News Service, about the current political situation in Pakistan.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and <b>Margaret McManus,</b> assistant professor of ocean sciences, were featured in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a major grant to establish a Center for Integrated Marine Technologies at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Francisco Hernandez,</b> vice chancellor of Student Affairs, was asked by <i>Education Week on the Web</i> for comment on a new report about the future of virtual education for high schools. In addition, <i>USA Today</i> listed the UC-sponsored free online test preparation course, which Hernandez helped launch, in a list of newsworthy web sites.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was quoted extensively in both the Associated Press State and Local Wire and the <i>Lexington Herald-Leader</i> in regard to how prison systems fail to rehabilitate offenders.
</p>
<p>
  Marine ecologist <b>Mark Carr</b> was featured in a story about the science of marine reserves in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about the theory that microbes from Mars traveled to Earth on a meteorite included quotes from <b>Frank Drake,</b> professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Herald-Sun</i> noted an upcoming lecture appearance by <b>Tina Campt,</b> associate professor of women's studies and history, at North Carolina Central University.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Lotus Baker,</b> visitor services supervisor at Lick Observatory, was quoted in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about an award the National Weather Service gave the observatory for 120 years of weather records. Baker is one of the staff who report the daily weather observations.
</p>
<p>
  Asteroid expert <b>Erik Asphau</b>g was quoted in an article in the <i>New York Times</i> about scientists' ideas for how best to stop an asteroid heading toward Earth, should one be discovered.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about research on the sexual behavior of banana slugs featuring graduate students <b>Janet Leonard</b> and <b>Brooke Miller</b> and undergraduate researcher <b>Kristina Ruble</b>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/12-02/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
