---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4233
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  A $9.1 million grant from the Moore Foundation to establish a Laboratory for Adaptive Optics at UCSC received print and broadcast media coverage, including stories in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and on KSBW-TV, KGO Radio, and KION Radio. <b>Joe Miller,</b> director of UCO/Lick Observatory, handled most of the interviews.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Wall Street Journal</i> cited the work of economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> in a story about the impact of foreign competition on domestic furniture manufacturing.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of molecular, cell, and developmental biology <b>Manuel Ares</b> was featured in several stories about his $1 million grant for undergraduate science education from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Stories appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Los Angeles Times,</i> and the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies appeared on the Public Radio International program, <i>The World,</i> discussing the Guatemalan peace process and the current state of affairs there.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Thompson,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, <b>Brent Haddad,</b> associate professor of environmental studies, and <b>Lisa Sloan,</b> associate professor of Earth sciences, were guests on KUSP Radio's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program. They discussed the STEPS Institute and its approach to global environmental issues.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b>'s expertise on race and public school enrollment was cited in an <i>Alameda Times-Star</i> article about "white flight" out of the state's public schools.
</p>
<p>
  As organizer of a scientific conference on asteroid hazards, associate professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug</b> was featured in several news stories and was interviewed on National Public Radio's <i>All Things Considered.</i> Coverage included an Associated Press story that ran in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News,</i> and other newspapers, a Reuters story that ran on <i>CNN.com</i> and was mentioned on <i>CNN Headline News,</i> a U.P.I. story, and an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine. Asphaug also did an interview with a BBC-TV documentary team.
</p>
<p>
  The experiences of history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> were included in a <i>Tampa Tribune</i> article on court cases involving academic freedom. Davis was fired from UCLA in 1969 because she was a communist. Although she won her case in court, the UC Regents overruled UCLA's chancellor's plans to reappoint Davis to her teaching position.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> tapped psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> and <b>Dane Archer</b> of sociology for their coverage of the anniversary of September 11. Pratkanis was also interviewed by the <i>Sacramento Bee</i> for a story about the cost of political advertising on cable television.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 academic year.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/09-30/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
