---
layout: post
title: "Making the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3231
images:
---

<p>
  Linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> spoke on radio programs in Australia and America about his new book <i>The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language</i>, which he coauthored with Rodney Huddleston of Queensland University. Pullum was interviewed for the <i>Lingua Franca</i> program on Australia's ABC Radio National; was the guest on a language and grammar call-in show on an ABC affiliate station in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; and was interviewed for the program <i>Radiogram</i> on KUSP Radio in Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Terrie Williams</b> and her <i>Exercise Physiology</i> class were featured on the front page of the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> when they investigated the physiology of surfing. The class project was also covered by local TV stations KSBW and KION.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was interviewed by the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> for an article on Latinos and the digital divide, providing statistics on computer and Internet use among different Latino groups.
</p>
<p>
  The Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group was in the news for its efforts to prevent bird deaths caused by power lines and its work with a pair of peregrine falcons nesting on the Oracle building in Redwood City. Bird group coordinator <b>Brian Walton</b> was interviewed by KSBW-TV and the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> a wire service story appeared in the <i>Los Angeles Times,</i> and KGO-TV (San Francisco) was among the media covering the falcon story.
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Dana Frank</b> had an article about globalization and the banana industry in Ecuador in the <i>Washington Post</i> Sunday <i>Outlook</i> section.
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://www.enn.com">Environmental News Network</a> ran a story about the Science Illustration Program featuring graduate student <b>Jennifer Kane.<br>
  <br></b>Professor of ocean sciences <b>Mary Silver</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about toxic algal blooms.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> column about the growing economic divide in California. Pastor also appeared in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about new census figures that show a drop in household incomes in much of southern California during the 1990s.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../media_highlights.winter02.pdf">Summary of Making the News columns, Januany-March 2002</a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="../../index.html">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p>
  END PAGE CONTENT
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/01-02/06-03/makenews.html" title="Permalink to makenews">Source</a></p>
