---
layout: post
title: "Economist David Kaun discusses corporate ethics April 23"
author: Jennifer McNulty
article_author: 
post_id: 3868
images:
---

<p>
  Economist David Kaun will join Congressman Sam Farr for a town hall meeting about corporate fraud, reform, and accountability at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, April 23, in the Veteran's Hall at 846 Front Street in Santa Cruz. The event is free and open to the public.
</p>
<p>
  Corporate fraud must be considered within the context of enormous wealth, said Kaun, a UCSC professor of economics whose recent research concerns the distorted influence of conservative think tanks on the public dialogue and the impact of income and wealth inequality on public attitudes.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "If you define fraud in a reasonable way, the salaries of corporate executives are fraudulent," said Kaun. "There are a lot of corporate executives who are fundamentally thieves because their salaries over the past two decades have soared into the millions of dollars a year with little relationship to performance. Theft is taking something you don't deserve, and as such there's a large number of people out there who are guilty of thievery."<br>
</p>
<p>
  At the same time, the degree of inequality between executives and workers has increased enormously, and such gaps foster envy and jealousy, added Kaun.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Economist Adam Smith wrote years ago about what happens when individuals accumulate great wealth and the consequent need for civil protection," said Kaun. "One of the things the government has to dedicate considerable resources to is internal security. Look at the growth of gated communities. It's all about protecting wealth."<br>
</p>
<p>
  On the other hand, Kaun applauded the philanthropic efforts of individuals such as Bill Gates and George Soros, who have shared their wealth worldwide. "But they seem to be the exceptions," he noted.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Joining Kaun and Farr will be Gloria Purdy, a high-tech financial executive. The event is cosponsored by People Against Corporate Thievery (PACT), UCSC's Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community, the UCSC Economics Department, and the Santa Cruz chapter of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF). A question-and-answer session will follow prepared remarks by the speakers.
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-21/fraud.html" title="Permalink to fraud">Source</a></p>
