---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5036
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about a meeting of engineering faculty with Silicon Valley technology leaders to discuss data storage solutions. Computer scientists <b>Darrell Long, Scott Brandt,</b> and <b>Ethan Miller</b> were featured in the story.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Houston Chronicle</i> quoted American studies professor <b>Dana Frank</b> in an article about Ecuador and the globalization of the banana industry.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> was interviewed on campus by a PBS TV production crew working on a program for the science documentary series <i>NOVA.</i> The production crew had previously interviewed astronomer <b>Sandra Faber,</b> a consultant for the program, at the W. M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Cathy Sandeen,</b> vice provost and dean of UC Santa Cruz Extension, penned an opinion piece on the importance of lifelong learning for the <i>Silicon Valley Biz Ink.</i> She was also the subject of a Q. &amp; A. in a special issue of the <i>India Post</i> devoted to UC Santa Cruz Extension and its services in Silicon Valley.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chicago Tribune</i> quoted American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> in an article about fashion and the music industry.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Environmental toxicology graduate student <b>Myra Finkelstein</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Honolulu Star-Bulletin</i> about her research on lead poisoning of albatross chicks on Midway Atoll. Finkelstein found the chicks are eating paint chips flaking off of old buildings on the islands.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Argus Leader</i> noted an appearance by assistant theater arts professor <b>Alma Martinez</b> at the University of South Dakota to discuss "The Myth of the Hollywood Latino Stereotype."
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-22/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
