---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3912
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Campbell Leaper</b> was featured in an ABC News report about differences in how boys and girls communicate.
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Dane Archer</b> was interviewed by the <i>New York Times</i> for an article about ethnic cosmetic surgery.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Chancellor Greenwood</b> was quoted extensively in an article in the <i>Washington Fax,</i> an online science policy information service, about the need to invest in graduate science and technology education on a national level.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>David Deamer</b> was quoted in a story about new research on the origins of life in <i>Science News</i> magazine. Deamer was also featured in a story about evolution and astrobiology in <i>Astrobiology</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  The noted German newspaper <i>Frankfurter Rundschau</i> devoted several paragraphs to assistant professor of philosophy <b>Alva Noe</b> in an article about sensory substitution and the recent film, <i>The Daredevil.</i> The article quoted Noe on the interpretation and significance of devices meant to enable the blind to see using other sensory capacities, such as hearing and touch.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of ocean sciences <b>Raphael Kudela</b> was quoted in a story on the <i>ScienceNow</i> web site about the "black water" phenomenon that damaged coral reefs off the coast of Florida.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Guillermo Delgado</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was tapped by the <i>Albuquerque Journal</i> for a story about a film festival that showcased films about ethnic identity, labor rights activism, gender and sexuality issues, indigenous resistance movements, and other topics. During the festival, Delgado discussed three Bolivian documentaries about the fallout from U.S.-sponsored coca eradication programs.
</p>
<p>
  The May issue of the <i>California Journal,</i> the Sacramento-based "must read" publication for politicos, included articles with commentary from two UCSC affiliates. <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in an article about environmental justice and the disproportionate exposure of racial minorities to toxics, while <b>Gary Bloom,</b> associate director of the UCSC New Teacher Center, was featured in a story about computers in the classroom.
</p>
<p>
  Adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology <b>James Estes</b> was quoted in a <i>Sacramento Bee</i> story about the alarming increase in sea otter deaths off the California coast.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the retirement celebration for <b>Ron Schusterman,</b> adjunct professor of ocean sciences and longtime sea lion researcher at Long Marine Lab. The article included quotes from postdoctoral researcher <b>Colleen Reichmuth Kastak.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Donald Saposnek,</b> a lecturer in psychology, discussed war-related stress and fear of terrorism on KUSP Radio.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-05/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
