---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4997
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Marine ecologist Jim Estes is featured in an article about the Alaska coast in the August issue of <i>National Geographic</i> magazine, along with researcher Tim Tinker. Estes was also quoted in a recent story in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about new estimates of historic whale populations.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Baltimore Sun</i> quoted theater arts professor Mark Franko and cited his book <i>The Work of Dance: Labor, Movement, and Identity in the 1930's,</i> for an article about using dance as a form of political protest.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist Stan Woosley was featured in a story in the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> about the link between gamma ray bursts and supernovae.<br>
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor Tricia Rose was quoted in a <i>Denver Post</i> article about the widespread appeal of hip-hop and black culture across the world. Her new book, <i>Longing to Tell,</i> was also reviewed in the <i>Washington Post.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> ran a review of botanist Jean Langenheim's new book, <i>Plant Resins: Chemistry, Evolution, Ecology, Ethnobotany.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> interviewed astronomer Greg Laughlin for a story about the exceptional view of Mars in the night sky this month as the red planet makes its closest approach to Earth in 50,000 years.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director Risa Brainin was cited in reviews of the company's production of <i>Hamlet,</i> published in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, San Jose Mercury News</i>, and <i>Monterey Herald.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> reported on research by Jean Brodie, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, that revealed a dwarf galaxy being disrupted and stripped of its stars by a giant spiral galaxy. The story also ran in the <i>Seattle Post Intelligencer.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Gary Glatzmaier, professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a story about the Earth's magnetic field in the <i>Mid-County Post.</i><br>
  <br>
  Literature professor Carla Freccero was quoted in the <i>Guardian UK</i> about Marvel Comics' new gay comic book character, <i>The Rawhide Kid.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/08-18/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
