---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5009
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erika Zavaleta</b> of environmental studies has received media attention for her study on the effects of global warming on grassland ecosystems, conducted while she was a doctoral student at Stanford. Reports appeared in <i>Life Science Weekly, Science Letter,</i> and elsewhere.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of art history <b>Catherine Soussloff</b> was featured on Chicago Public Radio's syndicated talk-show program, <i>Odyssey,</i> speaking about her book, <i>The Absolute Artist: The Historiography of a Concept.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Physics professor <b>Bruce Rosenblum</b> was quoted in an article about the Mystery Spot in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>The St. Petersburg Times</i> tapped <b>Michael Brown</b> of politics for comment on the recall of Gov. Gray Davis.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about renewed funding for UCSC's Center for Integrated Marine Technologies. Griggs also discussed the center's research on the Monterey Bay ecosystem on the <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program on KUSP Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported that history professor <b>Edmund Burke III,</b> psychology professor <b>Barbara Rogoff,</b> and literature professor <b>Helene Moglen</b> were awarded research funds and appointments as presidential chairs by Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Beyond Superwoman,</i> the new book coauthored by women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin,</b> was reviewed in the Salinas <i>Californian.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article featuring music department lecturer <b>Barry Green</b> and his new book, <i>The Mastery of Music.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/09-01/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
