---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4960
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The Mexico City newspapers <i>El Universal</i> and <i>La Jornada</i> covered a recent event at the Smithsonian's Wilson Center in Washington, D.C., that heralded the publication of <i>Cross-Border Dialogues,</i> coauthored by <b>Jonathan Fox</b> of Latin American and Latino studies.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of philosophy <b>Julie Tannenbaum</b> had an article published in the (U.K.) <i>Guardian</i> examining whether British Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bush deceived the public over the threat posed by Saddam Hussein in Iraq.
</p>
<p>
  Malaysia's <i>New Straits Times</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <b>Donna Haraway</b> in an article about robots, cyborgs, and the merging of man and machine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Pete Raimondi,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> story about the potential ecological impacts of a major oil fire at the Moss Landing Power Plant.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> covered research by <b>Erika Zavaleta</b> of environmental studies that measured the impact of climate and atmospheric changes on grassland diversity in California.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Newsweek</i> reviewed the new book <i>Longing to Tell: Black Women Talk About Sexuality and Intimacy</i> by American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose,</b> who was also quoted in an <i>Ebony</i> magazine article about relationships.
</p>
<p>
  Research on the mating behavior of lizards by <b>Barry Sinervo,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was reported on several online news sites, including <i>National Geographic News</i> and <i>Environmental News Network.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Contra Costa Times</i> reported on forensic anthropologist <b>Alison Galloway</b>'s involvement in the discovery of Indian bones during a construction project in Danville.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Film and Digital Media Department chair <b>Chip Lord</b> was quoted in the <i>Ottawa Citizen</i> and the <i>Milwaukee Journal Sentinel</i> about the passing of avant-garde architect/designer Doug Michels.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury</i> <i>News</i> and <i>Register Pajaronian</i> ran feature articles on Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director <b>Risa Brainin</b> and the summer festival.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Bill Domhoff</b> of sociology penned an opinion piece, "Can Radicals Be Liberals, Too?," for <i>In These Times.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michelle Witt,</b> director of Arts &amp; Lectures, and <b>Marcus Cato,</b> managing director of Shakespeare Santa Cruz, were quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the role of the audience in a performing arts event.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported on the creation of a new book arts award in the UCSC <b>Art Department</b> by community artists Peter and Donna Thomas.
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press, <i>Miami Herald,</i> and <i>Orlando Sentinel</i> noted the death of <b>Victor Perera,</b> a former UCSC lecturer in literature, writing, and journalism from 1972 to 1979.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-21/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
