---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3897
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>K. C. Fung</b> appeared on PBS's <i>Newshour</i> with Jim Lehrer discussing the economic impact of SARS in cities like Hong Kong.
</p>
<p>
  When leaders of the Human Genome Project announced its successful completion this month, several news articles mentioned the role of UCSC bioinformatics researchers in the project, including <b>David Haussler,</b> director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, and CBSE research scientist <b>James Kent.</b> The stories appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, San Francisco Chronicle,</i> and <i>The Scientist</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  During a recent visit to France, where he was invited to speak at the Sorbonne University, and to a group of multicultural community leaders in Marseilles, sociology professor <b>John Brown Childs</b> was quoted in the newspaper <i>Le Provencal</i> on the subject of transcommunal cooperation among diverse populations.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about marine reserves included quotes from <b>Mark Carr,</b> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of Earth sciences <b>Erik Asphaug</b> published an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about efforts to monitor asteroids that might be on a collision course with Earth, and how the asteroid threat compares with other natural hazards.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ann Caudle,</b> coordinator of the Science Illustration Program, was quoted in a <i>Sierra</i> magazine article about scientific illustration.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of astronomy and astrophysics <b>Garth Illingworth</b> was quoted in news stories about the planned launch of a powerful new space telescope called SIRTF, the fourth of NASA's "Great Observatories." The stories appeared in several newspapers, including the <i>Washington Post, Chicago Sun-Times,</i> <i>Florida Today,</i> and <i>Salt Lake Tribune</i>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>James Estes,</b> adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was featured in an article in the <i>Washington Post</i> about predation by killer whales on other marine mammals, including seals, sea lions, and sea otters.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/04-28/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
