---
layout: post
title: "College Prep Online program hosts summit"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5258
images:
---

<p>
  The University of California <a href="http://www.uccp.org">College Prep Online</a> program (UCCP), a provider of online college preparatory courses, held the first annual California Online Learning Developers' Summit on December 10 and 11 at UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The summit brought together experts from K-12 education, leaders of higher education, and industry to collaborate on the development of standards for the creation of high-quality, multimedia online courses. Participants explored the future of online education and discused the technology infrastructure needed to support high-quality, pedagogically sound online courses.<br>
</p>
<p>
  UCCP is a UC program that provides online college preparatory courses, content, test preparation, and academic support free of charge to students and teachers from eligible schools. The program reaches California high school students who otherwise would not have the opportunity to achieve eligibility for admission to the University of California and other top universities. UCCP materials are also used to supplement the classroom experience.
</p>
<p>
  "The summit is an opportunity for UCCP and its partners to bring together the best discourse, ideas, and engineering in online course development," said UCCP director Moises Torres.
</p>
<p>
  According to Rafael Granados, UCCP's associate director of curriculum and development, "UCCP's courses are designed for Internet 2, aligned to California content standards, and fulfill UC admission requirements."
</p>
<p>
  UCCP also offers professional development to teachers through its annual Summer Institute. Statewide, UCCP has reached more than 11,000 students from 469 schools and is active in 56 of California's 58 counties.<br>
  <br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-15/prep.html" title="Permalink to prep">Source</a></p>
