---
layout: post
title: "Film festival celebrates Women's History Month"
author: Scott Rappaport
article_author: 
post_id: 3761
images:
---

<p>
  The UCSC Women's Center will present a free film festival on campus the week of March 3-7, in celebration of Women's History Month.
</p>
<p>
  The event will feature a variety of films by and about women that focus on activism and untold stories. Free popcorn and drinks will be provided.<br>
</p>
<p>
  "Our intent was to focus on everyday women, not just famous women whose lives we all know about," noted Roberta Valdez, director of the Women's Center. "Because of the breadth of issues covered in the films, they are unique in that their content is mostly about women of color. This is a rare opportunity to see these films and these women's stories."<br>
</p>
<p>
  The festival was organized by first-year student Mary Dooley, the outreach and activist intern at the Women's Center. She selected the films to be screened from the video library at McHenry Library. Cosponsors include the Asian American/Pacific Islander, GLBT, and Native American Resource Centers.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Following is the festival schedule:
</p>
<p>
  <b>Monday, March 3: Bay Tree Conference Room D, 8 p.m.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>*Watermelon Woman</i> by Cheryl Dunye<br>
  Cheryl (played by Cheryl Dunye) works as a wedding photographer who uses her camera to create a documentary investigating the identity and whereabouts of an African American actress accredited only by the title "Watermelon Woman" (Fae Richards). This film offers good insights about sexism and racism along with queer issues in popular culture.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Tuesday, March 4: UCSC Women's Center, Cardiff House, 7 p.m.</b><br>
  (Cosponsored with Asian American/Pacific Islander Resource Center)<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>* Knowing Her Place</i> by Indu Krishnan<br>
  An Indian woman looks at her life, marriage, and role in contemporary society in both India and in the United States. Reflects the cultural conflicts of an Indian American woman.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>* Two Lies</i> by Pam Tom<br>
  A story of two Chinese-American girls and their relationship with their vain, flirtatious mother who is having plastic surgery to alter her Asian features.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>* Ripples of Change</i> by Nanako Kurihara<br>
  Nanako Kurihara came to the United States to escape being trapped as a woman in a repressive Japanese society. In New York she met a woman named Fumiko who had been active in the women's liberation movement in Japan. After the death of Fumiko, Nanako returned to Japan to find out what happened to the women's movement.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Wednesday, March 5: UCSC Women's Center, Cardiff House, 7 p.m.</b><br>
  Cosponsored with Gay, Lesbian, Bi, Transgender Resource Center<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>* Blossoms of Fire/Ramo de Fuego</i> by Maureen Gosling<br>
  A documentary on the legendary women of Juchitan, a city in Oaxaca, Mexico, where women are described as "guardians of men, distributors of food." The strong women of this claimed-to-be matriarchal society are depicted running their own businesses and expressing their progressive politics that manifest in their unusual tolerance of homosexuality. This documentary contrasts the foreign press description of this city, which is simply of a promiscuous matriarchy.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Thursday, March 6: Bay Tree Conference Room D, 7 p.m.</b><br>
  <br>
  * <i>Bandit Queen</i> by Mala Sen/Shekhar Kapur<br>
  Based on the dictated prison diaries of Phoolan Devi, a woman born of low caste, who was sold into brutal marriage when she was 11 years old. Her struggle against a class-based, male-dominated culture culminates in a spree of vengeful violence and finally a bloody coup.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Friday, March 7: UCSC Women's Center, Cardiff House, 7 p.m.</b><br>
  Cosponsored with the Native American Resource Center.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>* Lady Warriors</i> by John C. P. Goheen<br>
  A documentary about seven Native American girls of the Tuba City High School cross-country running team and their attempt to win a fourth state championship.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Film Festival is open to UCSC students, staff, and faculty. For more information, e-mail <a href="mailto:%20rvaldez@ucsc.edu">Roberta Valdez</a> or call her at (831) 459-2169.
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/03-03/festival.html" title="Permalink to festival">Source</a></p>
