---
layout: post
title: "morenews"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5222
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  More News
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="reminder" id="reminder"></a>Reminder: Staff forum on purchasing/E-procurement on December 3
</p>
<p>
  The third in a series of staff forums on the ongoing work of the Executive Budget Committee will be held from 10 to 11 a.m. on Wednesday, December 3, in the Bay Tree Conference Center, Room D. The topic of this forum will be purchasing and E-procurement. The forums are sponsored by the Staff Advisory Board.
</p>
<p>
  See <i>Currents</i> <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/11-17/forum.html">story</a> on the November 17 forum--the second on the topic of procedures in human resources and the time-and-attendance system.
</p>
<p>
  See <i>Currents</i> <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/03-04/11-10/budget_forum.html">story</a> on the November 5 forum--the first of two on the topic of procedures in human resources and the time-and-attendance system.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="dickens" id="dickens"></a>Dickens holiday evening set for December 5
</p>
<p>
  The Friends of the UCSC Library and the UCSC Dickens Project will present the annual Dickens Holiday Evening on Friday, December 5, from 4:30 to 6 p.m. at UCSC's McHenry Library Foyer. Admission is free and everyone is welcome.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The gathering will feature traditional Victorian entertainment and music, plus a reading from Dickens, and sing-along caroling. Guests will also be treated to a delicious array of Victorian holiday treats, including cookies, gingerbread, mincemeat pies, and hot apple cider.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Raffle "baskets" such as "Cure for What Ales You," A Christmas Carol, and "Travels with Charlie" will be on display during the event with winners announced throughout the program. (detailed descriptions of <a href="http://library.ucsc.edu/friends">raffle prizes)</a> Raffle tickets are available at the event or in advance by calling Friends of the UCSC Library at (831) 459-5870, and you need not be present to win. All money from the raffle is used to purchase books for the UCSC Library.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Friends of the UCSC Library will also present the Dickens Project with its annual gift for the library, which this year is a three-volume set entitled <i>Lives of Victorian Literary Figures.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  This event is handicapped accessible and assisted listening devices are also available. Free parking can be found in the Hahn Student Services lot after 4 p.m. For more information, contact Liz Sandoval at (831) 459-5870 or <a href="mailto:lsand@ucsc.edu">lsand@ucsc.edu</a>.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="winter" id="winter"></a>Winter campus closure begins December 24
</p>
<p>
  The campus will be closed from Wednesday, December 24, through Thursday, January 1, nine days in all. Four days are scheduled holidays (December 24, 25, 31, and January 1), two days are weekend days, and the remaining three days (December 26, 29, and 30) are "normal" workdays.<br>
</p>
<p>
  To cover "normal" workdays, staff employees have the option of using vacation, compensatory time off, or leave without pay. Employees without sufficient accumulated vacation are allowed to use up to three days of vacation leave prior to actual accrual. See <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/messages/03-04/11-24.shr_closure.html">Staff HR Info on Campus Closure 2003-04</a> and <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/messages/03-04/11-24.phys-plant_closure.html">Exceptions to Campus Closure 2003-04</a><br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <span class="sectionhead"><a name="shells" id="shells"></a>Jingle Shells Holiday Art and Book Festival at the Seymour Marine Discovery Center</span><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://seymourcenter.ucsc.edu">Seymour Center at Long Marine Laboratory</a> is celebrating the holidays with its annual Jingle Shells Art and Book Festival on Saturday, December 6, from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Do your holiday shopping in a festive atmosphere, with live music, refreshments, and children's activities. The event includes a wide variety of arts and crafts with ocean- and nature-related themes, plus special presentations and book signings by local authors and photographers.
</p>
<p>
  All items in the Ocean Discovery Shop will be on sale at 15 percent off.
</p>
<p>
  Admission is $5/adults, $3/seniors and students; children under 16 and Friends of Long Marine Lab members get in free.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <a href="http://seymourcenter.ucsc.edu.">Seymour Center</a> at Long Marine Lab is open for public visiting Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="norries" id="norries"></a>Norrie's Gift Shop at the Arboretum will hold holiday open house and faculty/staff sale
</p>
<p>
  Norrie's Gift Shop at the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/arboretum">Arboretum</a> is stocked with great gifts at all prices, as well as wreaths and decorations for the holiday season. The shop's annual holiday open house will be held on Saturday and Sunday, December 6 and 7, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Light refreshments will be served, and free gift wrapping will be available.
</p>
<p>
  Norrie's will host a special faculty/staff open house and sale on Monday, December 8, from 4 to 7 p.m. At this festive early evening event, staff and faculty will receive 10 percent off everything.
</p>
<p>
  Jewelry, bamboo cutting boards, candles, books, children's books and toys, unusual plants, tablecloths, hats, pottery, garden statuary, succulents, unique home decorations, and plant related arts and crafts are among the many popular items at Norrie's. All proceeds benefit the Arboretum.
</p>
<p>
  Check the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/arboretum">Arboretum web site</a> for information, garden hours, events, tours, festivals, special sales, and volunteer opportunities.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="dining" id="dining"></a>3,200 respond to dining services survey
</p>
<p>
  A total of 3,200 people took the time to respond to a recent survey about dining services at UCSC. The survey was the latest step in the campus's preparations to take over campus dining services by June 20, 2004.<br>
</p>
<p>
  More than 2,500 students returned a survey, said Carol Douglas-Hammer, assistant director for Student Housing Services. The surveys were distributed via e-mail to students, faculty, and staff October 24-31. Two separate surveys were developed by two independent consulting firms. The surveys were commissioned to help managers develop a multiyear master plan for campus dining services. Implementation will begin June 20, 2004, when transition to self-operation is complete.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Self-operation is more in keeping with the values and mission of the university and with the expectations of students, said Douglas-Hammer. It also offers dining services staff the opportunity to be UC employees, and it gives the campus greater say in shaping the dining services program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A total of 2,517 students, 579 staff members, and 104 faculty members returned a survey, according to Douglas-Hammer. Everyone who completed a survey was eligible to win a prize; winners were notified via e-mail. Winners of digital cameras were Carl Jason Corringe, Ruby Lipsenthal, Cheryl Lira, and Malia Paik-Nicely. Danielle Nicole Murillo and a person whose name was withheld won MP3 players, and Tami Greene and Jonathan Horn won $100 in Flexi Dollars. Fifteen others won $25 gift certificates to Bay Tree Bookstore or the University Center.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The results will be part of a master plan that will be delivered to the campus on January 5. Updates on the dining services transition will be posted <a href="http://www.housing.ucsc.edu/housing/dining_trans.html">online</a>. Additional information is available by <a href="mailto:aslee@ucsc.edu.Digital%20Cameras">e-mail</a>.<br>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="whitworth" id="whitworth"></a>Paul Whitworth to direct new play in San Francisco
</p>
<p>
  Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director Paul Whitworth, who is currently on sabbatical from UCSC, is directing the world premiere of a new play by renowned Irish novelist and playwright Edna O'Brien. The play is called <i><a href="http://www.magictheatre.org/pages/slot2.shtml">Triptych</a></i><a href="http://www.magictheatre.org/pages/slot2.shtml">,</a> and it will run at the <a href="http://www.magictheatre.org/index.jsp">Magic Theatre</a> at Fort Mason in San Francisco from December 2 to January 4. For ticket information and show times, call (415) 441-8822 or go to: <a href="http://www.magictheatre.org">www.magictheatre.org</a>.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="titlenine" id="titlenine"></a>2004 Title IX Advisory Council announced
</p>
<p>
  The members of the 2003-04 Title IX Advisory Council have been announced by the Title IX Office. They are Helen Shapiro, professor of sociology, chair; Jerome Neu, professor of humanities; Lori Kletzer, professor of economics; Amy Smith, graduate student in psychology; Rosemary Anderson, executive assistant to associate vice chancellor Jean-Marie Scott, CUHS; and Anh Chan, undergraduate student at Porter College.
</p>
<p>
  For information on the role of the Title IX Advisory Council please see the <i>UCSC Sex Offense Policy</i> and Procedures for the Reports of Sexual Assault(s) (Section VI. page 10) and Sexual Harassment (Section III.C., page 19 &amp; Section V., page 21). The information is also available on the web at <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/title9-sh">www2.ucsc.edu/title9-sh</a>.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="holiday" id="holiday"></a>UCenter will host Holiday 'Survivor' Night on December 2
</p>
<p>
  The University Center invites faculty and staff to get together for a Holiday "Survivor" Night on December 2 from 5 to 7:30 p.m. to share a bit of holiday cheer and get some tips on surviving the holidays.
</p>
<p>
  UCenter executive staff will demonstrate easy cooking ideas for fantastic results, beautiful and easy flower arrangements, and how to make a hot buttered rum really special. They will also offer quick holiday decorating advice. Seasonal hors d'oeuvres, spiced cider, and coffee will be served during the presentation; the bar will be open for those who wish to purchase drinks. There may even be some "survivor trivia" for those in the mood. The cost is $35 per person. Call (831) 459-4321 or e-mail: <a href="mailto:clarkj@ucsc.edu">clarkj@ucsc.edu</a> now for reservations.<br>
  <a href="#reminder">top</a>
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  <a name="construction" id="construction"></a>Construction update
</p>
<p>
  Currents provides regular updates on construction projects that have an impact on campus transportation and parking. <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/about/construction_plans.html">Construction update story</a>
</p>
<p>
  For more information, visit the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/">Transportation and Parking Services web site</a> and the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/ppc/">Physical Planning and Construction web site.<br></a><a href="#reminder">top</a><br>
  <br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a><br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/12-08/CURRENTS%20ONLINE/03-04/12%252f1/morenews.html" title="Permalink to morenews">Source</a></p>
