---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5113
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article on the $500,000 the campus has raised recently for student scholarships. <b>Kenneth Feingold,</b> chair of the UC Santa Cruz Foundation, also talked to the reporter about alumni contributions.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>David Kaun</b> fielded numerous interview requests about the recall election, including a query from <i>Semana</i> magazine in Bogota, Colombia. He also appeared on radio stations KAAA and KZZZ in Bullhead City, Arizona; WHAS in Louisville, Kentucky; WPKN in Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Radio Free Santa Cruz locally.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story on the success the men's soccer team is having this season--they're <a href="http://goslugs.com/teams/soccer/men/msoc.html">ranked no. 13</a> in the NCAA Division III. Senior <b>Dan Chamberlain,</b> junior <b>Eric Bucchere,</b> and coach <b>Paul Holocher</b> were interviewed for the story.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was interviewed by the <i>Orange County Register</i> for a story about Guatemalan immigrant communities in the United States.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and the <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> ran articles about the first <b>Master of Fine Arts</b> degree program in Digital Arts/New Media to be offered at UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Craig Reinarman</b> has appeared on local television several times to discuss medical marijuana.
</p>
<p>
  Music Department lecturer <b>Peter Elsea</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about electronic music.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program to discuss trade liberalization and job loss.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Good Times</i> extensively quoted associate professor of history <b>Dilip Basu</b> in an article about famed Indian film director Satyajit Ray.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> reported that UCSC received a $100,000 humanities grant for a five-week summer seminar for college teachers that will focus on the writing of Charles Dickens.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> noted two memorial events at UCSC to honor the late Mel Wong, professor of dance in the Theater Arts Department since 1989.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/10-20/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
