---
layout: post
title: "pubs"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3749
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  Publications
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  Terra Hangen publishes work on Florida's whooping cranes
</p>
<p>
  Librarian Terra Hangen had her feature article "Whooping Cranes: Florida's Snow Birds" published in <i>Florida Monthly.</i> The piece spotlights her interview with William Lishmann, the founder of Operation Migration, about a group of daring ultralight aircraft pilots who lead the young whooping cranes on their first migration. The birds fly 1200 miles from Wisconsin to Florida behind the aircraft which serve as flock leaders. Hangen's article "The Birds of Alcatraz," was previously featured in <i>The Living Bird Magazine,</i> published by Cornell University.
</p>
<p class="sectionhead">
  New book offers resources for teaching organic gardening and farming skills
</p>
<p>
  Over the past 35 years, instructors at UCSC have taught organic farming and gardening skills to more than a thousand apprentices through the UCSC Farm &amp; Garden Apprenticeship program. A new book published by the Center for Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems, titled <i>Teaching Organic Farming &amp; Gardening: Resources for Instructors,</i> draws on that experience to offer teaching resources based on many of the skills and concepts taught during the six-month apprenticeship training program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The 600-page manual covers practical aspects of organic farming and gardening, applied soil science, and social and environmental issues in agriculture. Units contain lecture outlines for instructors and detailed lecture outlines for students, field and laboratory demonstrations, assessment questions, and annotated resource lists. Although much of the material has been developed for field or garden demonstrations and skill building, most of the units can also be tailored to a classroom setting.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The training manual is designed for a wide audience of those involved in teaching farming and gardening, including colleges and universities with programs in sustainable agriculture, student farms or gardens, and on-farm education programs; urban agriculture, community garden, and farm training programs; farms with internships or apprenticeships; agriculture extension stations; school gardening programs; organizations such as the Peace Corps, U.S. AID, and other groups that provide international training in food growing and ecological growing methods; and master gardener programs.<br>
  <br>
  <i>Teaching Organic Gardening and Farming: Resources for Instructors</i> is available from the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems for $45. To order, send a check made payable to UC Regents to: CASFS, 1156 High St., Santa Cruz, CA 95064, attn: Teaching Manual. Be sure to include your mailing address. If you have questions about the resource guide, or questions about ordering, send e-mail to <a href="mailto:TrainingManual@ucsc.edu">TrainingManual@ucsc.edu</a>.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/02-24/pubs.html" title="Permalink to pubs">Source</a></p>
