---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3638
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>DOE News,</i> a publication of the U.S. Department of Energy,reported on the formation of a new high-level task force on the Future of Science Programs at the Department of Energy; <b>Chancellor Greenwood</b> is among those chosen to serve on the task force, which will be chaired by MIT president Charles M. Vest.
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Dana Frank</b> was quoted in a <i>Charlotte Observer</i> story about residents protesting a possible Wal-Mart store in their neighborhood.
</p>
<p>
  Kresge provost and journalism lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> had an article published in the <i>International Herald Tribune</i> about U.S.policy on foreign ai .<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Sam Hedgpeth,</b> assistant dean of engineering, was interviewed on KSCO Radio quoted in a story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a new agreement between the engineering school and Korea Telecom that will bring some of the company's managers to study at UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>Jin Zhang</b> was interviewed on KSCO Radio about his research on the electronic dynamics of gold nanoparticles.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Carla Freccero</b> was quoted extensively in an online BBC News article about Marvel Comics' new gay comic book character.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Seismologist <b>Susan Schwartz</b> was interviewed on local television stations KION and KCBA about a minor earthquake (4.3 on the Richter scale) near Hollister last week.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Russell Flegal,</b> professor of environmental toxicology, was interviewed by Earthwatch Radio about his findings on airborne mercury pollution. Flegal and graduate student <b>Douglas Steding</b> were also quoted in a story about their findings in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran a story about the new Center for Integrated Marine Technologies led by UCSC. <b>Margaret McManus,</b> assistant professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in the story.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Greg Laughlin</b> was quoted in a <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> story about his research project in which advanced amateur astronomers are being enlisted to help look for planets beyond the solar system. Laughlin was also quoted in a <i>New Scientist</i> magazine story about how many Earthlike planets might exist in our galaxy.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of physics <b>Joel Primack</b> and his wife, Nancy Abrams, were profiled in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about their efforts to make it easier for people to understand what scientists have learned about the cosmos.
</p>
<p>
  Library development director <b>Margaret Gordon</b> and Special Collections head <b>Rita Bottoms</b> were cited in <i>San Jose Mercury, Contra Costa Times,</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> articles about photographer Pirkle Jones's $1 million donation of photos to UCSC.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article about adaptive optics in the <i>Milwaukee Journal Sentinel</i> featured extensive quotes from an interview with <b>Claire Max,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics and associate director of the Center for Adaptive Optics.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Stephen Thorsett</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Washington Post</i> about a new NASA satellite to study supernovae.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about a new book, <i>Lack of Character: Personality and Moral Behavior,</i> by associate professor of philosophy <b>John Doris</b>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> column lauded the new photo book <i>Santa Cruz, California</i>, by UCSC librarians <b>Sheila O'Hare</b> and <b>Irene Berry.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/toplevel/administration/pio/media_highlights/index.html">Highlights of Making the News columns from the 2001-02 and 2002-03 academic years.</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/01-13/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
