---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4930
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> was featured in news coverage of a groundbreaking discovery by Woosley and others linking gamma-ray bursts and supernovas. Media coverage included stories in the <i>New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Orange County Register, International Herald Tribune,</i> and various online science news sites.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> noted the participation of <b>Lewis Watts,</b> assistant professor of art, in "Reflections in Black," the first exhibit exploring the range of work by black photographers in America from 1840 to the present. Coordinated by the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, the collection of more than 300 images opened at three Oakland museums. The <i>Contra Costa Times</i> also featured comments by Watts on the nationally touring exhibition.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> ran an item about research by geophysicists <b>Steven Ward</b> and <b>Erik Asphaug</b> on the tsunami that would be generated by an asteroid impact in the Atlantic Ocean.<br>
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in <i>Essence</i> magazine about the release of her new book, <i>Longing to Tell: Black Women Talk About Sexuality and Intimacy.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <i>New Scientist</i> magazine ran an article about research by <b>Barry Sinervo,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, on the mating strategies of different color morphs of side-blotched lizards and the evolution of cooperation between males of one color morph.
</p>
<p>
  Film and Digital Media Department chair <b>Chip Lord</b> was quoted in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article marking the death of avant garde architect/designer Doug Michels. Lord and Michels cofounded the Ant Farm in 1968, a San Francisco-based collective named because of its "underground" thinking about architecture. They created the renowned public art piece, <i>Cadillac Ranch,</i> that later inspired the Bruce Springsteen song of the same name.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Plant physiologist <b>Lincoln Taiz</b> was quoted in a U.P.I. wire story about new findings regarding proteins that control plant growth.
</p>
<p>
  American literature professor <b>Paul Skenazy</b> reviewed the new summer crop of detective fiction for the <i>Washington Post.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of computer science <b>Darrell Long</b> and graduate student <b>Lawrence You</b> were quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentine</i>l story about their "Deep Store" project to develop improved data-storage solutions.
</p>
<p>
  McHenry Library bibliographer <b>Paul Machlis</b> and music lecturer/voice instructor <b>Brian Staufenbiel</b> were cited in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about the library's acquisition of a new teaching resource, <i>Opera Practice Perfect</i>--a comprehensive audio catalog of 209 CDs that allows singers to practice their parts without live accompaniment.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a long profile of <b>Jim Kent,</b> research scientist in the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, covering his involvement in the Human Genome Project and his ongoing work in bioinformatics and genomics.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Keenan,</b> a lecturer in Chinese, was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the importance of learning the language to compete in the global business world.
</p>
<p>
  Environmental toxicology graduate student <b>Douglas Steding</b> was quoted in an article in the <i>Denver Post</i> about air pollution from Asia crossing the Pacific Ocean to the United States.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Dance Magazine</i> noted that <b>Ruth Solomon,</b> professor emerita of theater arts/dance, was presented with the 2003 Heritage Award--the highest honor bestowed by the National Dance Association. Solomon was director of the UCSC dance program, which she established in 1970, until her retirement in 1995.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle,</i> and <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> noted the passing of <b>Victor Perera,</b> a former UCSC lecturer in literature, writing, and journalism from 1972 to 1979. A memoirist, journalist, and novelist, Perera often wrote about the cultures of Sephardic Jews and the Maya Indians.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/07-07/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
