---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 3928
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler,</b> director of the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering (CBSE), was interviewed on National Public Radio's <i>All Things Considered</i> in a story about the human genome. Haussler discussed the analogy of DNA code as computer software with NPR reporter David Kestenbaum. Haussler and CBSE researcher <b>Fan Hsu</b> were quoted in a story about the UCSC genome browser in <i>Genomics</i> <i>and</i> <i>Genetics Weekly.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Carolyn Martin Shaw</b> of anthropology appeared on KUSP Radio as part of a discussion of university policies regarding faculty-student relationships.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a front-page feature story, as well as a follow-up article, extensively quoting history professor <b>Peter Kenez,</b> English and comparative literature professor <b>Murray Baumgarten,</b> and history lecturer <b>Bruce Thompson</b> about a three-day conference,"Rethinking Anti-Semitism: The Holocaust and the Contemporary World," held at Stevenson College.
</p>
<p>
  Research on the composition of distant galaxies by astronomer <b>Jason X. Prochaska</b> was covered by <i>Science News, Science Now, Space Flight Now,</i> and <i>Physics Web.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the Research Review Day at the Baskin School of Engineering, with quotes from Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> and engineering dean <b>Steve Kang.</b> The story also mentioned research by engineering faculty members <b>Ali Shakouri, Michael Isaacson, Wentai Liu,</b> and <b>David Haussler,</b> and included favorable quotes about the school from several Silicon Valley industry representatives.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article about the science illustration program in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> included quotes from program coordinator <b>Ann Caudle</b> and several current graduate students: <b>Evan Barbour, Nicolle Rager,</b> and <b>Lucy Reading</b>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/02-03/05-12/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
