---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6247
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Women's studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> was quoted in the <i>Oakland Tribune, San Mateo Country Times,</i> the <i>Argus, Tri-Valley Herald,</i> and the <i>Daily Review</i> in stories about the 40th anniversary of the Free Speech Movement at UC Berkeley.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Stan Woosley,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in <i>Science News</i> magazine in a story about new images of a supernova remnant. Woosley was also interviewed by BBC Radio's Leading Edge" program for a story about recent x-ray flashes from space that may signal supernova explosions.
</p>
<p>
  Doctoral candidate <b>Max Boykoff</b> of environmental studies continues to get calls on his analysis of media coverage of global warming, most recently from KSCN Radio in Los Angeles, <i>Metro Silicon Valley,</i> and <i>Clean Air-Cool Planet.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Garth Illingworth,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was quoted in a story about the Hubble Ultra Deep Field images of the early universe. The story ran in Knight-Ridder newspapers throughout the country, including the <i>Kansas City Star, Tallahassee Democrat, Charlotte Observer, Lexington Herald,</i> and <i>Duluth News Tribune.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Statesman Journal</i> of Salem, Oregon, cited research on small-business ownership by economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> in a story about Latino business networks.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susan Schwartz,</b> director of the Keck Seismology Laboratory, was interviewed by KSBW-TV about the recent seismic activity at Mount St. Helens volcano.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Nation's Health</i> covered a recent trip by <b>Nancy Stoller</b> of community studies, who toured prison facilities in the United Kingdom as part of her research on inmate health.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> ran a story about a talk by <b>Jim Estes,</b> adjunct professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, as part of Sea Otter Awareness Week.
</p>
<p>
  Arts &amp; Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> was quoted in a <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> feature on the 2004-05 performing arts season. The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Good Times</i> also ran stories about the new lineup.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Salinas Californian</i> ran a story about an internship program at UCSC's Center for Adaptive Optics, featuring <b>Lisa Hunter,</b> CfAO's associate director of education and human resources.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="Email this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-11/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
