---
layout: post
title: ""
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6459
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>John Jordan</b> was featured in a <i>New York Times</i> article about Google Scholar, a new service from the giant search engine designed to find scholarly abstracts, books, peer-reviewed papers, and technical papers intended for academics and scientists.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Scientist</i> magazine ran an article about biologist <b>Bruce Lyon</b>'s research on black-headed ducks.
</p>
<p>
  Research by physicist <b>Zack Schlesinger</b> on an unusual material that contracts when heated was covered by <i>Physical Review Focus, Materials Today,</i> and <i>Innovations Report.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Missouri's <i>Moberly Monitor-Index</i> described an interactive seminar presented by American Studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> that explored the relationship of race and youth culture.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Time</i> magazine article about cosmology included quotes from physicist <b>Anthony Aguirre.</b>
</p>
<p>
  A <i>National Geographic News</i> article about evolution in lizards included quotes from <b>Barry Sinervo</b>, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that music department lecturer <b>Patrice Maginnis</b> would perform at a concert of Kurt Weill music to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the Jewish Studies program at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend"><input name="Print" onclick="popUp()" type="button" value="Printer Friendly Version">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/12-13/news2.asp" title="Permalink to news2">Source</a></p>
