---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4457
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Chancellor <b>M.R.C. Greenwood</b> participated in a roundtable discussion convened by the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> on the impact of California's budget woes on higher education; an edited transcript of the conversation ran in two parts in the <i>Mercury News</i> in December.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Griggs</b> was quoted in a story in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> about erosion of the bluff at Pleasure Point and a proposed seawall recently rejected by the Coastal Commission.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Psychologist <b>Jean Fox Tree</b>'s research on speech comprehension was featured in a story that appeared in the <i>New York Times</i> and the <i>Chattanooga Times Free Press,</i> among other publications. Fox Tree, and Herbert Clark at Stanford, are pioneers of cutting-edge investigations of the significance of speech "disfluencies," such as um and uh.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> cited assistant dean of the arts <b>Keith Muscutt</b> in an article about Peru's past, noting his authorship of a book about the Chachapoya people, titled <i>Warriors of the Clouds</i> and his excavation of mummies dating to 1100 from cliffside mausoleums on a remote Peruvian lake, documented by the History Channel.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about the investigation of the crash of the space shuttle <i>Columbia</i> included a brief section on the contributions of <b>Julian Christou,</b> a research specialist in the Center for Adaptive Optics, who applied advanced image enhancement techniques to a photo of the shuttle just before it broke up.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press tapped water expert <b>Brent Haddad</b> of environmental studies for a story about the emergence of water markets across western states.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of art history <b>Carolyn Dean</b> was quoted in a <i>Seattle Times</i> article about the transition of Our Lady of Guadalupe from a sacred image in Mexico to a U.S. pop-culture icon.
</p>
<p>
  The work of <b>Wentai Liu,</b> professor of electrical engineering, and others to develop a retinal prosthesis for restoring vision were the subject of stories in several trade publications, including <i>Mechanical Engineering, Medical Devices &amp; Surgical Technology Week, Biotech Week,</i> and <i>Health &amp; Medicine Week.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was interviewed by a reporter from CBS <i>Marketwatch.com</i> for a story about trends in entrepreneurship among older workers.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>New African</i> magazine (UK) published a story about history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> accepting the Honorary Citizen of Paris award on behalf of imprisoned former Black Panther, civil rights activist, and journalist Mumia Abu-Jamal.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Susanne Jonas</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was interviewed by CNN International's <i>World News</i> program about the Dec. 28 Guatemalan runoff election.
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in a <i>Boston Globe</i> article about the impact of pop culture on female fashion choices.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Daily News</i> of Los Angeles covered a study by <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies that found dumps are more likely to be located in poor neighborhoods than wealthy areas.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey County Herald</i>, and <i>Salinas Californian</i> announced that music lecturer <b>Robert Klevan</b> has been tapped to be the new education director for the Monterey Jazz Festival.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An Associated Press story on the $35 million gift from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation to the University of California and Caltech to build the most powerful telescope included mention of Lick Observatory director <b>Joe Miller</b>. KSBW-Channel 8 also covered the story.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Albuquerque Journal</i> quoted folksinger Rosalie Sorrels about the donation of her archives to UCSC's Special Collections.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/01-12/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
