---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6419
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies hit the media jackpot last week when he appeared on <i>NOW with Bill Moyers.</i> Pastor and his coauthor, Angela Glover Blackwell, discussed community activism and postelection ways individuals can work for social change.
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Judy Yung</b> was extensively quoted in a <i>Sacramento Bee</i> article about Chinese immigration through the Bay Area's Angel Island.
</p>
<p>
  Astrophysicist <b>Stan Woosley</b> was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> article about research on supernova explosions. An image from Woosley's computer simulations of supernovae accompanied the story.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies was featured on KQED Radio's <i>California Report,</i> discussing her recent book about organic farming in the Golden State.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Physicist <b>Joel Primack</b> was featured in a story on National Public Radio's <i>All Things Considered</i> about a report from the American Physical Society criticizing President Bush's plans for space exploration. Primack was also featured in an article about cosmology in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of theater arts <b>Patty Gallagher</b> was quoted in the <i>Washington Post</i> about her expertise in mask work and theatrical clowning.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> made the <i>Wall Street Journal,</i> discussing the recent rise in entrepreneurship.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Jim Estes</b> and graduate student <b>Tim Tinker</b> were featured in an article about sea otter populations in the <i>Los Angeles Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Technology developed by <b>Holger Schmidt</b>, assistant professor of electrical engineering, for guiding light waves through small volumes of liquids on a chip was covered by <i>Laser Focus World</i> and <i>Chemical Processing</i> magazines.
</p>
<p>
  Environmental studies Ph.D. candidate <b>Max Boykoff</b>'s analysis of media coverage of global climate change was a point of discussion in a <i>Columbia Journalism Review</i> article. Boykoff, who was interviewed for the story, also appeared in the <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> and the <i>World Paper.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Engineering dean <b>Steve Kang</b> was quoted in an article in <i>Electronic Engineering Times</i> about a panel he chaired at the International Conference on Computer-Aided Design in San Jose.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Anthony Pratkanis</b> was interviewed by the <i>Arizona Republic</i> about the "opening day" frenzy that draws crowds like the one that gathered in Tempe for the opening of an Ikea store.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Terrie Williams</b> was interviewed on KION TV about a dolphin that was released back into the wild after being rehabilitated by Williams and her team of marine mammal trainers at Long Marine Lab in cooperation with the Marine Mammal Center of Sausalito.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> interviewed <b>Kirsten Gruesz,</b> associate professor of literature, for a story on a presentation she gave on Hispanic literature at the Watsonville Public Library.
</p>
<p>
  Ocean sciences graduate student <b>Daria Siciliano</b> was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> story about researchers using a remote sensing technique called hyperspectral imaging to study Monterey Bay.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs</b>, professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the defeat of a proposal to build a seawall in Capitola.
</p>
<p>
  <i>ScienceNow</i> ran a story about research by Earth sciences graduate student <b>Kena Fox-Dobbs</b> on the diets of California condors during the late Pleistocene, which she presented at the annual meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in Denver.
</p>
<p>
  Arts &amp; Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> was quoted in a story on the cover of the arts section of the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about an appearance by famed rapper and social activist Chuck D at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <b>John Wilkes,</b> director of the Science Communication Program, was quoted in an article about careers in science journalism on the <i>Nature Jobs</i> web site.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/11-29/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
