---
layout: post
title: "Rainbow Theater performances set for October, November"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6295
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Rainbow Theater will present four one-act plays and a full-length production during October and November.
</p>
<p>
  Rainbow Theater is designed to foster the spirit of unity between races, while providing an outlet for creative talents of various cultural and ethnic groups, and focus on current issues and concerns.
</p>
<p>
  The October 28-30 shows will be at the Stevenson Event Center at 8 p.m.; the October 31 show is at 2 p.m.; and the November 5-6 shows are at Louden Nelson Community Center, 301 Center Street, Santa Cruz, at 8 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  Tickets are available 30 minutes before each show, and cost $7 for students and $9 for other adults.
</p>
<p>
  The productions are:
</p>
<p>
  <i><b>Black Men on the Edge,</b></i> written by William F. Mayfield and directed by Edward Askew McWilliams and Matthew Christopher Jones, delves into the worlds of six black men who deal with everyday life in a society based on their exclusion. It is an explosive series of vignettes painted by spoken word, music, monologues, dance, and poetry. Performances: October 28, 30; November 5.
</p>
<p>
  <i><b>Poet's Corner</b></i> is the segment of Rainbow Theater that takes a different form each year. It is directed by Amelia Bjorklund and Stephanie David, but written, composed, and choreographed entirely from scratch by the whole cast each year. It is perhaps the purest expression of the Rainbow Theater's community. Performances: October 29, October 31; November 6.
</p>
<p>
  <i><b>Fuchsia,</b></i> written by Janise Astor Del Valle and directed by Maria Olivo and Rena Bartley-Abella, addresses issues of homosexuality and the AIDS epidemic. The play deals with how AIDS affects not only the individual, but its ties to the family and friends of the individual affected. Performances: October 28, October 30; November 5.
</p>
<p>
  Set in the 1880's, <i><b>Bitter Cane</b></i> is the untold story of Chinese sugar cane plantation workers and the varying perspectives of how they created opportunities for themselves. Directed by Jino De Castro and Ingrid Valerio, this offers an intriguing look into the cultures of these times. The play revolves around characters including Lau, the failed hope; Fook, the arrogant traitor; Kam, the talker; and Wing, the past's redemption. Performances: October 29, 31; November 6.
</p>
<p>
  Lisa Harper's <b><i>An' Push da Wind Down</i></b> is directed by Don Williams, Roy Halo, and Julie Willhite. This full-length, two-act play is performed separately from the Rainbow Theater shows. Harper masterfully depicts African American slaves and their relationship with the Cherokee Nation in the early 1800s, using music, comedy, and drama. This production is meant to serve as a vehicle to increase the awareness of the cultural climate that exists at UCSC and in the city of Santa Cruz. Performances: November 11, 12, 13, at the Stevenson Event Center, 8 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  Additional information is available at the Rainbow Theater web site, <a href="http://rainbowtheater.cjb.net%20">rainbowtheater.cjb.net</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-25/rainbow.asp" title="Permalink to rainbow">Source</a></p>
