---
layout: post
title: "Health Advisory issued: Unimmunized UCSC student exposed to confirmed case of measles"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4660
images:
---

<p>
  The Disease Control Unit of the Health Services Agency of Santa Cruz County issued the following public health advisory on Wednesday, April 7:<br>
</p>
<p>
  An unimmunized UCSC student has been exposed to a confirmed case of the measles.<br>
  <br>
  The exposed student attended classes and rode the bus while possibly infectious on Monday, April 5th, and Tuesday April 6th.
</p>
<p>
  Measles spreads very easily by direct contact and by air. Simply being in the same room with someone who has measles is sufficient to become infected.
</p>
<p>
  Approximately 10 days after exposure, measles produces a two-week illness with high fever (101 degrees Fahrenheit or more), cough, runny nose, and/or red, watery eyes which are sensitive to light, followed in three days by a blotchy rash that starts on the face. One in every 20 cases develops pneumonia and, more rarely, serious, even life-threatening complications can occur.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>RECOMMENDATIONS</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  1. Check your health records immediately to see whether or not you have received two doses of measles vaccine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  2. If you've never been immunized, were immunized only once, or aren't sure what your measles immunization history is, we strongly recommend that you get immunized now. A repeat immunization is not harmful to someone who already had the vaccine or the disease. Also, even if you think you may have had the measles, unless you are absolutely certain that a doctor diagnosed you as having rubeola, or 10-day measles, we recommend that you get immunized.<br>
</p>
<p>
  3. To get immunized, go to the Student Health Center for a special Measles Immunization Clinic on: THURSDAY 1- 5PM or FRIDAY 9-12 AM AND 1-4 PM<br>
</p>
<p>
  4. If you develop symptoms of the measles (see above), you should return to your local residence immediately, avoiding contact with all others and call the Student Health Service at 459-2398 for advice. After hours contact the Emergency Room at Dominican Hospital 462-7710.
</p>
<p>
  The pricipal investigator for the exposure is Fritzi Nelson, Manager, Disease control Unit, (831) 454-4330<br>
</p>
<p>
  A Health Alert conveys the highest level of importance; warranting immediate action or attention. This action, a Health Advisory, provides important information for a specific incident or situation; it may not require immediate action. A Health Update provides updated information regarding an incident or situation; it is unlikely to require immediate action.)
</p>
<p>
  For more information on measles, visit <a href="http://www.cdc.gov">www.cdc.gov</a><br>
  <br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-05/measles.html" title="Permalink to measles">Source</a></p>
