---
layout: post
title: "Family Center serving campus parents"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4766
images:
---

<p>
  The UCSC Family Center, a resource center in the planning stages for more than a year, has been formed to assist student, staff and faculty parents.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A board of directors has been established, with representatives of students, staff, and faculty.
</p>
<p>
  Based in Family Student Housing Apartment 712, the center offers parenting classes, a computer study center for parents and children, a play area for children, a clothing and toy exchange, as well as space for meetings and social gatherings for parent organizations.
</p>
<p>
  A food pantry and food-for-children program has also been established, and is serving 160 Family Student Housing residents. Sign-up for these programs is ongoing.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A list serve, <a href="mailto:parents@ucsc.edu">parents@ucsc.edu</a>, has been created for parents to use and to access information about the Family Center. To subscribe, contact Mark Neenan at (831) 459-1520 or send a notice through the list serve.
</p>
<p>
  The first parent graduation celebration is being planned for the afternoon of Friday, June 11. Those interested in participating in the graduation or being on the planning committee should contact Conne Lester at (831) 459-4085.
</p>
<p>
  The center has two social events planned for this month. Single parents and their children are invited to a get-together on Friday, May 21, from 5 to 7 p.m. at the UCSC Family Center, Apartment 712, Family Student Housing. Snacks will be provided. All are encouraged to come with ideas for future single-parent events.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender families are invited to a barbecue on Sunday, May 23, from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Family Student Housing Community Picnic Area. Hot dogs, hamburgers, and sodas will be provided and participants should bring a dish to share and RSVP at (831) 459-4085.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Those wanting to volunteer for one of the center projects or find out more may contact Conne Lester at (831) 459-4085 or Mark Neenan at (831) 459-1520.<br>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-10/center.html" title="Permalink to center">Source</a></p>
