---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4904
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor and department chair <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about efforts to involve the hip-hop generation in mainstream politics. The <i>Chronicle</i> also quoted American studies professor <b>Judy Yung</b> in a piece about the Bay Area's Square and Circle Club, one of the oldest Chinese women's service organizations in the United States.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> ran a beautifully illustrated story about the <b>Science Illustration Program</b> and its transfer to UCSC Extension due to state budget cuts. Program coordinator <b>Ann Caudle</b> and several of this year's students were quoted in the story.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>Slate</i> magazine's recent article about the nation's on-again, off-again love affair with milk mentioned work by sociologist <b>Melanie DuPuis.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The marine natural products research of <b>Phil Crews,</b> professor of chemistry, is included in an article about the search for medicines from the sea in the May issue of <i>Smithsonian</i> magazine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a piece about UCSC alum <b>Kent Nagano</b> choosing music professor and Arts Division dean <b>Edward Houghton</b>'s new transcription of a Renaissance mass by composer Johannes Ockeghem to open the 2004 Ojai Music Festival.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> ran a story about the folded paper structures illustrating mathematical principles (now called "computational origami") that were created by the late <b>David Huffman,</b> who was a professor of computer science at UCSC. One expert in the field describes Huffman's work as "awesome." His daughter <b>Elise Huffman,</b> a senior graphic artist with UCSC Extension, is quoted in the story, as is <b>Michael Tanner,</b> professor emeritus and a former colleague of Huffman's at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> featured Alan Chadwick Garden manager <b>Orin Martin</b> in a story about the array of citrus that can be cultivated year-round by home gardeners.
</p>
<p>
  The (Syracuse, N.Y.) <i>Post-Standard</i> cited a study by sociologist <b>Mike Males</b> in its coverage of a teen curfew proposal, and Males penned an opinion piece for the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> that cited misconceptions about local rates of teen violence, suicide, and drug abuse.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Peter Raimondi,</b> professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article about proposals for a desalination plant on Monterey Bay in <i>Metro Santa Cruz.</i> Raimondi has studied the potential impacts of a desalination plant on marine life.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Metro</i> praised the Music Department's growing opera program in a review that credited music lecturer <b>Brian Staufenbiel</b> and Professor <b>Nicole Paiement</b> with leading an inspiring production of Kurt Weill's <i>Street Scene.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Francisco Hernandez</b> was quoted in a <i>California Journal</i> article about the impact of UC fee hikes on low-income students.
</p>
<p>
  A recent "On the Bay" column in the <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> discussed research on blue whales by <b>Don Croll,</b> assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  The (Massachusetts) <i>Sunday Telegram</i> profiled organic farmer <b>Joe Lambro,</b> a graduate of the Apprenticeship in Ecological Horticulture.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-28/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
