---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4593
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>'s proposal to offer wage insurance to displaced workers continues to get high-profile media coverage, most recently in the <i>Wall Street Journal, Financial Times,</i> and <i>National Journal.</i>
</p>
<p>
  A story in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about new findings that shed light on the first moments after the Big Bang included quotes from astronomer <b>Piero Madau.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of film and digital media <b>L. S. Kim</b> was a featured guest on National Public Radio's <i>On Point</i> program to discuss the cultural impact of HBO's television series <i>Sex and the City.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Mike Males</b> of sociology was quoted in the <i>Las Vegas Review-Journal</i> about new findings regarding adolescent brain development.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a news item about <b>Peggy Delaney,</b> professor of ocean sciences, who was elected a fellow of the American Geophysical Union. Delaney was also quoted in a story in the <i>Kansas City Star</i> and other Knight-Ridder newspapers about plans for the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Allentown Morning Call</i> covered a speech by history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> at Pennsylvania's Lehigh University, where she called the U.S. prison system an outmoded form of punishment and urged that it be replaced by a multifaceted approach to rehabilitation.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Donald Potts,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article in <i>Nature</i> magazine about surprising new findings regarding the relationships among corals of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Ronnie Gruhn</b> of politics discussed events in Haiti on the <i>Democracy Now</i> radio program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Math professor <b>Richard Montgomery</b> collaborated with Stanford researchers on a study covered by National Public Radio and <i>Science News</i>--a mathematical analysis suggesting that a coin toss is inherently biased.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Darrell Long,</b> professor of computer science, was quoted in news stories in the <i>Santa Fe New Mexican, Albuquerque Journal,</i> and Associated Press news wires about problems with a supercomputer at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Long worked on an expert review of the Department of Energy's national supercomputing program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> ran feature articles about music lecturer <b>Mesut Ozgen</b>'s multimedia project New Dimensions in Classical Guitar, describing his collaboration with assistant film and digital media professor <b>Gustavo Vazquez,</b> music lecturer <b>Peter Elsea,</b> and assistant theater arts professor <b>David Cuthbert.</b>
</p>
<p>
  Arboretum director <b>Dan Harder</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about flowering plum trees heralding the approach of spring in Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erika Zavaleta</b> of environmental studies was profiled in the spring edition of <i>Nature Conservancy,</i> as part of a feature on leading conservation scientists.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-08/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
