---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4879
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> ran a profile of <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, after he was awarded the Allen Newell Award for his pioneering work in computational biology. Haussler was also quoted in an article in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine about highly conserved DNA sequences in animals.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Urban</b> of politics appeared on KUSP's <i>Talk of the Bay</i> program, discussing the popularity of the blues in Russia.
</p>
<p>
  Music professor <b>Fredric Lieberman</b> was quoted in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about donations to UCSC by two foundations established by members of the Grateful Dead to help preserve the late composer Lou Harrison's archive in the library's Special Collections.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Rem Stone,</b> director of operations at Lick Observatory, was profiled in a feature story about the observatory on Mt. Hamilton in <i>Sky &amp; Telescope</i> magazine. Several of UCSC's astronomy faculty were also mentioned or quoted in the story, including Sandra Faber, Steven Vogt, and Claire Max.
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor and department chair <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in the <i>Orlando Sentinel</i> about sexist images and degrading lyrics in rap music.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Melanie DuPuis,</b> editor of a new book about air pollution, appeared on KPFA Radio to discuss the history of air pollution policy.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/06-14/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
