---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4706
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> of psychology has fielded numerous media inquiries, including calls from the Associated Press, <i>Los Angeles Times,</i> and United Press International about the 20-month lockdown of Latino inmates at Folsom State Prison. Haney was also interviewed by the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about prison gangs and by a <i>New York Times Magazine</i> writer about supermax prisons. Finally, a reporter for <i>New York</i> magazine called to discuss how inmates cope with being in prison for life.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gerald Barnett,</b> director of the Office for Management of Intellectual Property, was the subject of a profile in the <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i>. The story focused on Barnett's unconventional approach to technology transfer, and included quotes from vice chancellor for research <b>Robert Miller,</b> chemistry professor <b>Glenn Millhauser,</b> and history professor <b>Alan Christy</b>.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Barbara Epstein</b> and Hebrew lecturer <b>Tammi Rossman-Benjamin</b> were quoted in the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about the departure of Chancellor Greenwood.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b> made the front page of the <i>Wall Street Journal</i> in a story about the outsourcing of jobs. . . . Fellow economist <b>Mike Dooley</b> was featured in a <i>Financial Times</i> column.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> was profiled in Cleveland's <i>Call and Post.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Renee Tajima-Pena</b> of community studies penned a column for the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about her husband's quest to piece together his fragmented family, which she documented in the film <i>My Journey Home,</i> which aired on PBS in early April.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Times</i> quoted political scientist <b>Bob Meister</b> in a story about whether U.S. aid to Iraqi insurgents bred future terrorists.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erika Zavaleta</b> of environmental studies was quoted in articles in the Albuquerque newspapers about the economics of salt cedar eradication.
</p>
<p>
  In community studies, research by <b>Julie Guthman</b> was discussed in <i>Organics,</i> a British trade journal aimed at a U. S. audience.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Robert Klevan,</b> music lecturer and new education director for the Monterey Jazz Festival, was quoted in a <i>Monterey County Herald</i> article about the festival's 34th annual National High School Jazz Competition.<br>
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor and department chair <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in the <i>Kansas City Star</i> about the influence of pop star Britney Spears.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Janet Bryer</b> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Foods Systems was featured in <i>Monterey Herald</i> coverage of efforts by Pajaro Valley farmers to reduce water runoff from agricultural lands.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Shakespeare Santa Cruz artistic director <b>Paul Whitworth</b> was quoted in the <i>San Jose Mercury New</i>s about the new 2004 summer season lineup.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-19/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
