---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4563
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Jakarta's <i>Kompas,</i> the top Indonesian newspaper, featured an in-depth interview with theater arts professor <b>Kathy Foley,</b> and the Bandung, Indonesia, papers <i>Pikiran Rakyat</i> and <i>Metro</i> had articles on her lecture-performance at the Sunaryo gallery in Bandung which shared aspects of her Fulbright supported research.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>New York Times</i> about dark energy and its implications for the fate of the universe included a quote from <b>Sandra Faber,</b> University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Professor of history <b>Bruce Levine</b> contributed a book review to the <i>Chicago Tribune</i> about a historical scholar's new perspective on Abraham Lincoln.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the new Department of Biomolecular Engineering, quoting acting chair <b>David Deamer,</b> professor of chemistry and biochemistry. The <i>San Jose Business Journal</i> also reported on the new department.<br>
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Dana Frank</b> was quoted in <i>AAA World</i> magazine about the politics of "Buy American" campaigns.
</p>
<p>
  Biologists <b>Janet Linthicum</b> and <b>Glenn Stewart</b> of the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group were featured in a story about peregrine falcons in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel.</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Dan Costa,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in an article in <i>The Scotsman</i> and in <i>National Geographic News</i> about his collaborative research project called Tagging of Pacific Pelagics, which aims to tag and track the movements of more than 20 different species of marine life.<br>
</p>
<p>
  A <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> article about a new arts education program in Bay Area elementary schools described a classroom discussion of a photograph taken by assistant professor of art <b>Lewis Watts.</b><br>
</p>
<p>
  Writing Program lecturer <b>Tim Fitzmaurice</b> was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> article about the Santa Cruz City Council's decision to approve a new ride at the city's historic beach boardwalk.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-23/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
