---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6274
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> called on physicist <b>Bruce Schumm</b> for a critique of the ideas about quantum physics presented in the new movie <i>What the Bleep do We Know?!</i>
</p>
<p>
  A <i>San Diego Union-Tribune</i> reporter called <b>Michael Brown</b> of politics to discuss reapportionment, open primaries, and ballot items, and his story was distributed over Copley News Service.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Richard Hughey,</b> professor and chair of computer engineering, was quoted extensively in an article about bioinformatics in the <i>Silicon Valley Metro.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Women's studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> was quoted in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle, Alameda Times-Star, Berkeley Daily Planet,</i> and <i>Tri-Valley Herald</i> in additional stories about the 40th anniversary of the Free Speech Movement at UC Berkeley.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Ottawa Citizen</i> ran a glowing writeup of the recent speech in Edmonton by economist <b>Michael Hutchison</b>, who discussed East Asian capital flows.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about research indicating that woolly mammoths and other large mammals were wiped out in North America by a combination of human hunting and climate change included quotes from <b>Paul Koch</b>, professor of Earth sciences and a collaborator on the study.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies was interviewed by KPFA Radio and a Marin County radio station about her new book, <i>Agrarian Dreams.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Florida's <i>Naples Daily News</i> quoted linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> in an article about how politicians can mislead voters without actually saying anything untrue.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Toledo Blade</i> quoted geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> in a story about the potential for a volcanic eruption in the Canary Islands to cause a massive tsunami in the Atlantic Ocean.
</p>
<p>
  Literature professor <b>Helene Moglen</b> was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about <i>Shock and Awe: War on Words,</i> a new book published by UCSC's Institute for Advanced Feminist Research that explores the political meaning of words.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Greg Laughlin</b> was quoted in an article about extrasolar planets on the web sites of <i>SpaceRef.com</i> and <i>Astrobiology Magazine.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="Email this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/10-18/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
