---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6120
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  <em>Science News</em> magazine turned to astrophysicist <strong>Stan Woosley</strong> for commentary on stunning new images of a supernova remnant obtained by NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory, while <em>New Scientist</em> magazine quoted Woosley in a story about gamma-ray bursts.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <strong>Bill Domhoff</strong> was a prominent respondent in a recent <em>Newsweek</em> cover story about dream research, and Domhoff also discussed the meaning of dreams with the <em>Palm Beach Post</em>.
</p>
<p>
  Philosophy professor <strong>John Doris</strong> was quoted in Canada's<em>National Post</em> in an article about research on the nature of goodness to be funded by the lawyer for Oskar Schindler, using proceeds set aside from premieres of the film <em>Schindler's List</em>.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Mark Carr,</strong> associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a <em>San Jose Mercury News</em> article about a state decision to restart efforts to create a network of marine protected areas along the California coast.
</p>
<p>
  The <em>Contra Costa Times</em> and the <em>San Jose Mercury News</em> ran comments by sociologist <strong>Mike Males</strong> about the latest proposal by state Senator John Vasconcellos to lower the state voting age to 16. Males also discussed youth curfews with <em>The Indiana Lawyer</em> in a story about an Indiana curfew law that was recently ruled unconstitutional by a federal court.
</p>
<p>
  <em>San Francisco Chronicle</em> book critic David Kipen lauded literature professor <strong>John Jordan</strong>, and professor of English and comparative literature <strong>Murray Baumgarten</strong> in an account of a week he spent at UCSC's Dicken's Project, describing it as a "leading international center for Dickens studies that also produces and directs much fine scholarship...that may just be literary California's best kept secret."
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Gary Griggs,</strong> director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in stories in the <em>San Jose Mercury News</em> and <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em> about new funding for the Center for Integrated Marine Technologies.
</p>
<p>
  Social sciences dean and economist <strong>Michael Hutchison</strong> appeared on a recent KSBW-TV report about job losses in Santa Cruz County, discussing the impact of rising gas prices and the state budget squeeze.
</p>
<p>
  Women's studies research associate <strong>Peggy Downes Baskin</strong> was quoted in a <em>San Jose Mercury News</em> article about life and career choices made by women in their late 20s and 30s. Baskin was also quoted in a <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em> article about career women balancing their work and home lives.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <em>New Scientist</em> magazine about the planetary collision that created the moon included quotes from <strong>Erik Asphaug,</strong> associate professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  Politics prof <strong>Dan Wirls</strong> was interviewed about the U.S. Senate by the <em>Denver Post</em>.
</p>
<p>
  The <em>Chronicle of Higher Education</em> ran a story about "Second-Career Scientists" featuring <strong>Jim Kent,</strong> a researcher in the Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, who left a successful career as a computer programmer to earn his Ph.D. in biology at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  The <em>Los Angeles Times</em> quoted economist <strong>Rob Fairlie</strong> in a story about jobs data that focused on the self-employed.
</p>
<p>
  Vice chancellor for research <strong>Robert Miller</strong> was quoted in a story about university technology transfer programs in the <em>Seattle Times.</em>
</p>
<p>
  The <em>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</em> ran a story about a well-attended bird walk in the Watsonville Slough led by <strong>Todd Newberry,</strong> professor emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <strong>Melanie DuPuis</strong> fielded a call from KSCO Radio about her new volume of essays about air pollution.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Alan Litke,</strong> adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in a <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em> story about a grant he received for research in neurobiology.
</p>
<p>
  The <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em> ran a story about an endowment established by psychology professor emerita <strong>Melanie J. Mayer</strong> to benefit history research in Special Collections at the Library. Ohio's <em>Journal News</em> also ran a front-page feature story on the endowment.
</p>
<p>
  An article in <i>Wired News</i> about the Tagging of Pacific Pelagics program for tracking the migrations of marine life included quotes from postdoctoral researcher <strong>Scott Shaffer.</strong>
</p>
<p>
  The late professor emerita of art <strong>Mary Holmes</strong> was quoted in a <em>Washington Times</em> story about the musical, <em>Crowns</em>, a tribute to the "hat queens" of the South.
</p>
<p>
  <em>Sea Technology</em> magazine ran an article about the first expedition of the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program led by <strong>Andrew Fisher,</strong> professor of Earth sciences.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/09-06/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
