---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4664
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of literature <b>Kirsten Silva Gruesz</b> was featured in a <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> article about the profusion of buzzwords in the field of American studies.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a lengthy profile of filmmaker and community studies prof <b>Renee Tajima-Pena</b> on the eve of the PBS television premiere of two of her films. The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> also wrote about Tajima-Pena's work in conjunction with the broadcasts.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology's <b>Ben Crow</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about new alternatives to traditional publications that have become available to faculty researchers.
</p>
<p>
  National Public Radio's <i>Morning Edition</i> program tapped sociology instructor <b>Mike Males</b> for comment on teen curfews.
</p>
<p>
  In psychology, capital punishment expert <b>Craig Haney</b> was prominently quoted in a <i>Modesto Bee</i> article about the jurors in the trial of Scott Peterson.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> noted that theater arts professor <b>Mark Franko</b> was the choreographer of <i>Caesura,</i> an upcoming Bay Area production.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology instructor <b>Donald Saposnek</b> was quoted in a Columbia News Service story that appeared in the <i>Chicago Tribune</i> and other newspapers about an innovative martial arts therapy that helps children with mild behavioral disorders.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that music professor <b>Linda Burman-Hall</b> was a judge in the Santa Cruz Baroque Festival's second annual Youth Chamber Music Contest held at UCSC.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/04-05/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
