---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4795
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Contra Costa Times</i> ran stories about the falling silver levels in San Francisco Bay, quoting <b>Russell Flegal,</b> professor of environmental toxicology.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Nancy Aebersold,</b> director of the Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC), was quoted in a <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> article about helping dual-career couples find academic jobs.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Craig Haney</b> continues to field calls from reporters about the brutalizing atmosphere of prisons, most recently from <i>USA Today, People</i> magazine, and the <i>International Herald Tribune.</i> He discussed the 1971 Stanford Prison Experiment and the abuse of Iraqi prisoners on <i>Dateline NBC</i>. Haney also was quoted by the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> in a story about jury selection.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Terry Schalk,</b> adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in a story in the <i>Contra Costa Times</i> about a Science and Technology Fair at a high school in Oakley. Schalk and others from the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics presented a tesla coil demonstration at the event.
</p>
<p>
  Literature lecturer <b>Chuck Atkinson</b> and journalism lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> were quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about state budget cuts.<br>
  <br>
  The <i>Sacramento Bee</i> tapped <b>Ellen Moir</b> of the UCSC New Teacher Center to discuss the classroom management challenges that confound many new teachers.
</p>
<p>
  Professor emeritus <b>Michael Soule</b> was mentioned in a story about species in crisis that appeared in the <i>Oregonian.</i>
</p>
<p>
  <b>Caroline Pomeroy,</b> a researcher at the Institute of Marine Sciences, was quoted in an article in the <i>Good Times</i> about wild salmon populations.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <i>The Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin</b> will be a keynote speaker at a Santa Cruz Chamber of Commerce Women in Business luncheon.
</p>
<p>
  The discovery of "ultra-conserved" elements in the human genome by UCSC researchers--including <b>David Haussler,</b> professor of biomolecular engineering, and postdoctoral researcher <b>Gill Bejerano</b>--was reported in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle,</i> U.P.I. wire service, and numerous online news sites, including <i>BBC News, Medical Science News, Bio-IT Bulletin, Innovations Report, Science Daily,</i> and <i>Bio.com.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Sociologist <b>Craig Reinarman's</b> recent study about marijuana use was covered in several dailies in the East Bay, including the <i>Alameda Times-Star,</i> the (Fremont) <i>Argus,</i> the <i>Tri-Valley Herald,</i> and the (Hayward) <i>Daily Review.</i>
</p>
<p>
  UCSC's decision to serve fair-trade coffee in campus dining halls was included in a recent <i>New York Times</i> story about the Fair Trade food movement.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/05-17/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
