---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4629
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Professor of ocean sciences <b>Peggy Delaney</b> was quoted in an article that ran in newspapers around the country about the new Integrated Ocean Drilling Program, an international cooperative research program she helped plan. The story appeared in the <i>Seattle Times, Philadelphia Inquirer, Charlotte Observer,</i> and <i>Duluth News-Tribune,</i> among others.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Pedro Castillo,</b> professor of history and member of the National Endowment for the Humanities Council, was quoted in a <i>London Times Higher Education Supplement</i> article about the Republican Right's "hijack of U.S. science."
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> talked with <b>Greta Gibson</b> of education and anthropology for a story about two new books that discuss immigration and assimilation issues.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the Hubble Space Telescope featuring <b>Garth Illingworth,</b> professor of astronomy and astrophysics. Illingworth has also been quoted in stories about the telescope in <i>Aviation Week</i> and <i>Space Technology</i> and <i>Space News</i> (at <i>Space.com).</i><br>
</p>
<p>
  Music lecturer <b>Barry Green</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about his upcoming bass recital as part of the Cabrillo College Distinguished Artist series.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i>'s coverage of the impact of jobs moving offshore was enhanced by analysis provided by economist <b>Lori Kletzer,</b> whose work was also covered in a report by Inter Press Service. . . . Also in economics, <b>David Kaun</b> was interviewed by KPFA Radio, critiquing Bush's justification of his tax cuts.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Pete Raimondi,</b> professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was quoted in a story in the <i>Orange County Register</i> about the effects of coastal power plants on marine life.<br>
</p>
<p>
  An article about tsunamis in <i>Science News</i> magazine included a section on research by geophysicist <b>Steven Ward.</b>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a><br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/03-22/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
