---
layout: post
title: "Budget update, non-Senate teaching faculty on Senate agenda"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4547
images:
---

<p>
  <i>UCSC's Academic Senate will hold its winter meeting at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, February 18, at Kresge Town Hall. Alison Galloway, Academic Senate Chair, has addressed the following letter to members of the Senate outlining issues on the <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/04feb/A04feb.htm">agenda</a>.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Dear Colleagues;<br>
</p>
<p>
  Attached is the <a href="http://senate.ucsc.edu/meetings/04feb/A04feb.htm">call</a> for the Winter meeting of the UCSC Division of the Academic Senate.<br>
  <br>
  There are two major items for discussion, one of which has an accompanying resolution.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Committee on Planning and Budget will present a mid-year report, providing an update on the budget situation, the possible measures that can be taken in the long and short terms and the expenses presently known to be reducible.
</p>
<p>
  The Executive Summary of this report is included in the call, with the full report to be available before the meeting.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Special Committee on Non-Senate Teaching Faculty has prepared its report in which "best practices" are outlined, based on an extensive survey of campus departments. These suggestions call for better integration of non-Senate faculty with departmental governance, particularly with regard to curricular matters.
</p>
<p>
  The survey of non-Senate faculty supports the proposal to include their representation on standing Senate committees. The means by which they will be selected and the form and amount of compensation needed are not determined.
</p>
<p>
  The report also addresses the changes in the status of non-Senate faculty in the new Memorandum of Understanding. The committee's work concludes with a resolution for the Senate to consider greater incorporation of non-Senate faculty into our governance and the institution of better measures to provide secure employment, even without "security of employment." Please read this report and the resolution carefully prior to the meeting.<br>
</p>
<p>
  We will also be able to provide some updates on the budget issue, the long range development plans, and outside affiliations such as the Monterey Institute of International Studies.
</p>
<p>
  I look forward to seeing you at the meeting.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Sincerely,
</p>
<p align="right">
  Alison Galloway, Chair<br>
  Academic Senate<br>
  Santa Cruz Division
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/02-16/senate.html" title="Permalink to senate">Source</a></p>
