---
layout: post
title: "Transit study draft report available for comment"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 4473
images:
---

<p>
  A draft report of the <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/transitstudy.html">Comprehensive Transit Study</a> for Transportation and Parking Services (TAPS) is now available for review and comment by the campus community.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The purpose of the study, which began in April 2003, is to find ways to improve transit service at the university, looking at both the UCSC shuttle system and Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District (Metro) routes that serve university locations both on and off campus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The Urbitran consultant will be meeting with various constituent groups on the following schedule. Students, staff and faculty are welcome, but space is limited at some locations, so please call Teresa Buika at (831) 469-1941 for meeting details.<br>
  <br>
  * <b>January 20:</b> Student Union Assembly meeting, 6-8 p.m., Bay Tree Conference Center Room D.<br>
  * <b>January 21:</b> Student discussion of transit study, 1-3 p.m., Colleges Nine and Ten Namaste Lounge.<br>
  * <b>January 22:</b> Presentation to UCSC TAC/TOC Committee, Study Steering Committee, and LRDP Committee members. Call (831) 469-1941 to confirm attendance for this session.<br>
  * <b>January 23:</b> Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District Board meeting, 9 a.m., Santa Cruz City Council Chambers.The study is primarily funded through an $80,000 federal transit planning grant provided by the Federal Transit Association. TAPS has hired Urbitran, a nationally recognized transportation consulting firm, to conduct the study. Urbitran brings a wealth of expertise in working with university campuses across the nation.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Goals of the study include making transit more efficient and reliable, improving transit connections between on- and off-campus destinations, identifying how best to balance transit with other transportation modes, and developing a transit plan that accommodates current and future transit demand. By projecting future demand based on current transit patterns, the study offers recommendations for short-term service improvements for the campus shuttle system as well as
</p>
<p>
  Metro routes that serve the campus. In addition, the report offers long-term recommendations and implementation strategies for vehicle capacity and infrastructure needs of both transit operators to effectively meet future demand.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Some highlights of the study include:<br>
</p>
<p>
  * Specific recommendations for UCSC shuttle route and Metro route improvements;<br>
  * Recommendations for possible new transit services to serve the UCSC community;<br>
  * Vehicle capacity recommendations;<br>
  * Infrastructure recommendations, including bus stop extensions, bus queue jump lanes, possible automobile restrictions on particular campus roadways, bus rapid transit recommendations, and other technologies that can help provide real-time transit information
</p>
<p>
  TAPS welcomes comments on the report, which should be sent to <a href="mailto:tabuika@ucsc.edu">Teresa Buika,</a> Campus Transportation Planner, no later than January 31, 2004.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The report and presentation meeting times are <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/taps/transitstudy.html">posted online.</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/03-04/01-19/taps.html" title="Permalink to taps">Source</a></p>
