---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6458
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Research by professor of biomolecular engineering <b>David Haussler</b> and others on the use of computers to reconstruct the genome of a common ancestor of mammals received wide coverage, including the <i>New York Times, Minneapolis Star Tribune, Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, the <i>Guardian</i> (U.K.), Scripps Howard News Service, UPI, <i>New Scientist</i> magazine, and online news sites MSNBC.com, BBC News, <i>ScienceNow, Scientific American, Bio-IT World, Innovations Report, Times of India, Betterhumans (Canada), Science Daily, ScienceBlog.com, and Medical News Today.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Research on the antibiotic rifampicin as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease by <b>Anthony Fink,</b> professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was covered by the <i>Hartford Courant,</i> UPI, BBC <i>News.com, Forbes.com, WebMD</i>, <i>DeHavilland News, Science Daily, WebIndia</i>, and CNS <i>Drug News Pharmaceuticals.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Michael Dooley</b> was quoted in a <i>Business Week</i> article about the U.S. trade gap, explaining the benefits to China of the large gap. Dooley was also quoted discussing Asian exchange rates in a <i>Bloomberg News</i> column. In another story about the impacts of globalization on the U.S. economy, <i>Business Week</i> reported research by economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>, who has examined data of workers who've been laid off to extrapolate the fate of workers displaced by trade.
</p>
<p>
  <i>ABCNews.com</i> ran a story about research on Weddell Seals in Antarctica by <b>Terrie Williams</b>, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology. Video footage from Williams's research was aired with related stories on ABC's <i>Good Morning America, World News Tonight</i>, and <i>20/20.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Los Angeles Times</i> tapped sociologist <b>Mike Males</b> for comment about the drop in teen drivers, which he attributes to the expense of cars and insurance. The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and the <i>Contra Costa Times</i> also phoned Males for a story about adults being held liable for youths' crimes.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about the death of Rocky the sea lion, with quotes from research biologist <b>Colleen Kastak</b> and <b>Ronald Schusterman</b>, retired adjunct professor of ocean sciences.
</p>
<p>
  The Associated Press quoted psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> in a story about prospective jurors' understanding of the presumption of innocence, which he said is often deficient.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran a story about research on black-headed ducks by biologist <b>Bruce Lyon</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in the <i>San Bernardino Sun</i> about the impact of neighborhood blight on crime rates.
</p>
<p>
  Assistant professor of theater arts <b>David Cuthbert</b> contributed an article to <i>Entertainment Design</i> about landing a job as a lighting designer for a Broadway show starring Billy Crystal.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Erik Asphaug</b>, associate professor of Earth sciences, was quoted in a story about asteroids on <i>Space.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Kathy Keenan,</b> who teaches business and marketing writing at UCSC Extension, was quoted in a <i>New York Times</i> story about the sorry state of written communication in the workplace.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Mid-County Post</i> ran stories quoting head of special collections <b>Christine Bunting</b> about a $500,000 gift from the late Miller and Bunny Outcalt to benefit the photographic archives in the Library.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a blurb about the new book by sociologist <b>Patricia Allen</b>.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/12-13/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
