---
layout: post
title: "news"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6108
images:
---

<p class="pagehead">
  UCSC in the News
</p>
<p>
  Emeritus professor of linguistics <b>William Shipley</b> was featured in <i>Mother Jones</i> magazine in an article titled "Keepers of a Lost Language" about efforts to preserve the language of Mountain Maidu.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Stories about the awarding of a Getty campus heritage grant to UCSC appeared in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and were sent out on the Associated Press news wire.
</p>
<p>
  Film and Digital Media Department Chair <b>Chip Lord</b> was interviewed on <i>Talk of the City,</i> a program of Pasadena's KPCC radio, about his role as co-founder of the historic Ant Farm architectural collective.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted the work of Film and Digital Media professor <b>L. S. Kim</b> in bringing Hollywood film directors Alexander Payne, Justin Lin, and actress Sandra Oh to visit film classes on campus.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey Herald</i> quoted women's studies lecturer <b>Peggy Downes Baskin</b> in an article about women networking to advance their business careers.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran stories about the new 2004-05 series announced by UCSC's Arts &amp; Lectures.<br>
</p>
<p>
  Linguistics professor <b>Geoffrey Pullum</b> was quoted in an <i>Orlando Sentinel</i> article, contesting claims that a study recently published in the journal <i>Science</i> shows that dogs can understand language.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that Music Department faculty <b>David Evan Jones, David Cope, Paul Nauert, Hi Kyung Kim,</b> and <b>Karlton Hester</b> will coordinate UCSC's new doctorate program in music composition. The <i>Mid-County Post</i> also featured Jones in a story about the new program.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> printed history professor <b>Jonathan Beecher</b>'s commencement speech at Stevenson College in its entirety after observing that his comments prompted a wide range of reactions in the community.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel, Register-Pajaronian,</i> and <i>Monterey Herald</i> quoted Shakespeare Santa Cruz director <b>Paul Whitworth</b> and Theater Arts Department chair <b>Danny Scheie</b> in stories about the new SSC summer season.<br>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> announced the appointment of philosophy professor <b>Ellen Suckiel</b> as provost of Stevenson College.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights">Monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns</a>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/08-23/news.html" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
