---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 6326
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Terrie Williams</b>, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, wrote an opinion piece for the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> about the ecological ramifications of killing coyotes that find their way into suburban neighborhoods.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about <b>Wentai Liu,</b> professor of electrical engineering, and his work on a project to develop an artificial retina.
</p>
<p>
  Marine biologist <b>Burney Le Boeuf</b> was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> article about great white sharks.
</p>
<p>
  Arts &amp; Lectures director <b>Michelle Witt</b> and theater arts professor <b>Jim Bierman</b> were quoted in a feature story in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> about a tribute to the late actor/monologist Spalding Gray.
</p>
<p>
  Professor of Earth sciences <b>Gary Griggs</b> was quoted in the <i>Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i> in a story on the 15th anniversary of the Loma Prieta earthquake.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gerald Barnett,</b> director of the Office for Management of Intellectual Property, was quoted in an <i>Arizona Republic</i> story about a proposition on the Arizona ballot that would affect how the state's universities license technology to private companies. Barnett was also quoted in a <i>Chronicle of Higher Education</i> story about university patents based on faculty research.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b>
</p>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="Email this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/11-01/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
