---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5314
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Research geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b>, an expert on tsunamis, fielded numerous media calls in the aftermath of the disaster in South Asia. He appeared on local and national TV news programs, including <i>Dateline NBC</i>, and was quoted in the <i>New York Times, Washington Post, USA Today, New York Daily News, Seattle Times, Miami Herald, Palm Beach Post, Whittier Daily News, Newsweek</i> magazine, other newspapers, and various online news sites. Ward's tsunami research was also referenced on the TV shows <i>Extra</i> and <i>Inside Edition</i> and in articles in the <i>Baltimore Sun, Newsday, Los Angeles Times, Contra Costa Times</i>, <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and many other newspapers. He has also scheduled an interview with the Discovery Channel for two upcoming programs on tsunamis.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Gary Griggs,</b> professor of Earth sciences, also fielded media calls about tsunami risks on the West Coast and was quoted in the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i>.
</p>
<p>
  A sharp increase in the number of entrepreneurs in the United States, calculated by economist <b>Rob Fairlie,</b> received a lot of attention from the press, including coverage in the <i>Sacramento Bee, Arizona Republic, Small Business News, Newark Star-Ledger, St. Louis Dispatch, Chicago Tribune, Santa Cruz Sentinel,</i> and <i>Las Vegas Sun.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Assistant arts dean <b>Keith Muscutt</b> was quoted in the <i>Seattle Times</i> about the downside of adventurer Gene Savoy, the world's foremost chronicler of a forgotten Peruvian civilization known as the Chachapoya.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Andrew Fisher,</b> professor of Earth sciences, was featured in a story in the <i>Toronto Star</i> about his research on the vast amounts of water circulating through the seafloor and the microbial communities that live in this hidden world.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about a new study that found that most Latinos live in neighborhoods where they are not the majority, although the percentage of Latinos who do live in Latino-dominated neighborhoods increased from 39 percent to 43 percent from 1990 to 2000.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> quoted literature professor <b>Susan Gillman</b> about the qualifications of UCSC's new chancellor <b>Denice Denton</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Research on nerve regeneration by biologists <b>Yishi Jin, Andrew Chisholm,</b> and others was reported in <i>Medical News Today</i> and <i>Photonics Spectra</i> magazine.
</p>
<p>
  Anthropologist <b>Triloki Pandey</b> was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about Hindus who exchange Christmas gifts and have integrated other aspects of the holiday into their winter traditions.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Seattle Times</i> about the recent oil spill in Alaska quoted biologist <b>Jim Estes</b> in reference to the chances for survival of oiled sea otters.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Lori Kletzer</b>'s work on manufacturing job losses was cited in a <i>Pittsburgh Post-Gazette</i> article about outsourcing that ran on the Scripps Howard News Service and was published by several newspapers.
</p>
<p>
  <b>David Haussler</b>, professor of biomolecular engineering, was featured on the NPR programs <i>Weekend Edition</i> and <i>All Things Considered</i> in stories about his efforts to reconstruct the genome of the common ancestor of most mammals.
</p>
<p>
  For a major story about technology in agriculture pegged to the introduction of a mechanical orange picker, the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> contacted sociology professor emeritus <b>Bill Friedland</b>, who discussed the social changes brought about by inventions like the mechanical tomato harvester.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Khaleej Times</i>, an English-language daily newspaper published from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, quoted theater arts professor <b>Kathy Foley</b> in an article about preserving Thailand's traditional art of puppetry.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> profiled Professor Emeritus <b>Theodore Sarbin</b> of psychology and criminology, focusing on the months Sarbin spent riding the rails during the Depression, an experience he said shaped his life and work.
</p>
<p>
  History of consciousness professor <b>Barbara Epstein</b> was quoted in a <i>Berkeley Daily Planet</i> article about a UC Berkeley professor ousted for his challenges to an increasingly corporate academic culture.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>New York Sun</i> tapped anthropologist <b>Hugh Raffles</b> for an article about a flatbed truck accident in Las Vegas that spilled 480 bee colonies on a roadway.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> was interviewed by a Brazilian journalist about U.S. support for capital punishment.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-10/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
