---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5583
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Associate professor of literature <b>Karen Yamashita</b> was featured in a <i>Minneapolis Star Tribune</i> article about her four works of fiction prior to an appearance at Macalester College in St. Paul.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran an article about UCSC's <b>New Teacher Center</b> being awarded a $1.5 million contract to evaluate school districts' programs for teachers.
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>George Lipsitz</b> was quoted in a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> article about Mexican pop music superstar Gloria Trevi.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story about women's studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b>, covering her address to the 10th annual Monterey County Women's Multicultural Conference where she noted that reproductive choice "is a human right."
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> noted that literature professor <b>Susan Gillman</b> received an honorable mention from the Modern Language Association of America (MLA) for her book <i>Blood Talk: American Race Melodrama and the Culture of the Occult.</i>
</p>
<p>
  Kentucky's <i>Courier-Journal</i> quoted history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> about her role in the development of a new endowed chair in race, class, gender, and sexuality at the University of Louisville.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> and <i>Good Times</i> ran feature stories on theater arts lecturer <b>Don Williams</b> who was honored at this year's Calabash Awards for his contributions to ethnic arts in Santa Cruz County. The <i>Metro Santa Cruz</i> and <i>Watsonville</i> <i>Register-Pajaronian</i> also announced his award.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-28/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
