---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5294
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> published a lengthy story about the growing popularity of <b>Bob Shepherd</b>'s accounting classes at UCSC, and the big firms that recruit his students.
</p>
<p>
  Research by professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>Anthony Fink</b> on the antibiotic rifampicin as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease was also covered in a variety of weekly newsletters, including <i>Aging &amp; Elder Health Week, Biotech Week, Drug Week, Medicine &amp; Law Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Health &amp; Medicine Week, Pain &amp; Central Nervous System Week</i>, and <i>Proteomics Weekly.</i>
</p>
<p>
  History professor <b>Dana Frank</b> appeared on NPR's <i>Marketplace</i> to discuss the issue of "buying American" during the Christmas shopping season.
</p>
<p>
  Research geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> has been contacted by numerous media outlets, including the <i>Washington Post, New York Daily News, Newsweek</i> magazine, and local KION TV, regarding the computer simulation he created of the tsunami that has devastated South Asia.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Craig Haney</b> was quoted in an Associated Press story about jury selection in the Robert Blake murder case, saying research shows that many jurors participate in trials without understanding, or embracing, the presumption of innocence.
</p>
<p>
  Research by professor of biomolecular engineering <b>David Haussler</b> and others on the use of computers to reconstruct the genome of a common ancestor of mammals was covered in a variety of weekly newsletters, including <i>Genomics &amp; Genetics Weekly, Biotech Week, Life Science Weekly, Science Letter, Health &amp; Medicine Week,</i> and <i>Lab Law Weekly</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was quoted in a <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> story about the impact of Asian immigrants on the Bay Area. Pastor's work in environmental justice also prompted a call from <i>AlterNet</i> for a story about a report that found that Latinos bear the brunt of environmental health threats in the United States.
</p>
<p>
  Bangkok's <i>Agence France</i> <i>Presse</i> quoted theater arts professor <b>Kathy Foley</b> in an article about preserving Thailand's traditional art of puppetry.
</p>
<p>
  A recent <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about organic farming tapped the expertise of <b>Julie Guthman</b> of community studies.
</p>
<p>
  Researcher <b>Phil Howard</b> of the Center for Agroecology &amp; Sustainable Food Systems was quoted in a <i>Tampa Tribune</i> article about retail turf wars in the natural foods market.
</p>
<p>
  Community studies major <b>Katie Lahey</b> was the focus of a <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> story about Americans who are in Venezuela to support President Hugo Chavez.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-03/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
