---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5470
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in the <i>Sacramento Bee</i> about the origin of pop culture's highly sexual and demeaning images of African American women.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Stephen Thorsett</b>, professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about plans for a new space-based telescope.
</p>
<p>
  A story in the Bay Area's <i>Korea Times</i> highlighted <b>Chancellor Denton</b>'s attendance at a dinner hosted by the Korean consul gGeneral to brief the Korean media about the upcoming UCSC Pacific Rim Music Festival.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Riordan</b>, adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in the <i>Newark Star-Ledger</i> in a story about the merger of AT&amp;T and SBC Communications. Riordan also wrote an op-ed piece for the same paper about the history of AT&amp;T's Bell Labs.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a story in the business section about Glumetrics, a company developing products based on UCSC research led by professor of chemistry and biochemistry <b>Bakthan Singaram</b>.
</p>
<p>
  Associate professor of history <b>David Anthony</b> was quoted in a <i>Monterey Herald</i> article about the race barriers that black soldiers faced in World War II.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Bruce Schumm,</b> professor of physics, was quoted in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about a lecture by Masaru Emoto, who claims that human thoughts and words can alter water molecules.
</p>
<p>
  A <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> story about the Orchid Society Show featured <b>Frank Drake,</b> professor emeritus of astronomy and astrophysics, who is also an orchid enthusiast and president of the Santa Cruz Orchid Society.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Los Angeles Times</i> about proposals for desalination plants on the coast included quotes from <b>Pete Raimondi,</b> professor and chair of ecology and evolutionary biology.
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> was quoted in an article about tsunami warning systems in <i>American Scientist</i> magazine.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-21/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
