---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5560
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Physicist <b>David Smith</b> was quoted in stories about his research on terrestrial gamma-ray flashes in <i>New Scientist</i> magazine, the <i>Washington Times</i>, and online news sites <i>Discovery News, MSNBC, Science Daily, SpaceRef</i>, and <i>Space Daily</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> ran a feature story on women's studies professor <b>Bettina Aptheker</b> covering her address as the keynote speaker at the 10th annual Monterey County Women's Multicultural Conference.
</p>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Glenn Stewart</b> from the Predatory Bird Research Group was featured in coverage of peregrine falcons nesting on the PG&amp;E building in San Francisco in the <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i>, KGO and KTVU television news, and KGO Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Mary Silver</b>, professor of ocean sciences, was quoted in stories about harmful algal blooms in Monterey Bay that ran in the <i>San Jose Mercury News, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Monterey County Herald, Watsonville Register-Pajaronian</i>, and <i>Silicon Valley Business Journal</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Raleigh's <i>News &amp; Observer</i> quoted American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> in an article about the battle to fight highly sexualized and degrading representations of black women in the media.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Good Times</i> featured <b>Roberto Manduchi</b>, assistant professor of computer engineering, and graduate student <b>Dan Yuan</b> in a story about their efforts to develop assistive technology for the blind.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Greg Laughlin</b> was quoted in a <i>National Geographic</i> article about the search for other planets like our own.
</p>
<p>
  Writing lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> contributed an editorial piece about foreign policy and China to <i>CounterPunch.com</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Astronomer <b>Stan Woosley</b> was featured in widespread media coverage of a study by other researchers on supermassive stars, including stories in the <i>New York Times, Baltimore Sun, Houston Chronicle, Contra Costa Times</i>, and <i>Astronomy</i> magazine. Woosley was also interviewed on National Public Radio's <i>Morning Edition</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The Vanderbilt <i>Hustler</i> ran a feature on a visit by history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> to Vanderbilt University during its Black History Month celebration.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-21/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
