---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5442
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  <b>Sandra Faber</b>, University Professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was a guest on National Public Radio's <i>Talk of the Nation/Science Friday</i> for a discussion of the future of the Hubble Space Telescope.
</p>
<p>
  <i>SeniorJournal.com</i> picked up on recent work by psychology's <b>Mara Mather,</b> who published research about age-related memory processes that suggest that older adults "accentuate the positive"' in their memories.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Michael Riordan</b>, adjunct professor of physics, was quoted in the <i>Wall Street Journal</i> in a story about the rise and fall of AT&amp;T and the achievements of AT&amp;T's Bell Labs.
</p>
<p>
  Agroecology postgraduate researcher <b>Phil Howard</b> continues to field media queries about his survey of food consumers, most recently from KSCO Radio.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Nancy Chen</b> of anthropology appeared live on a Chicago radio program, discussing biotechnology in China as part of a discussion of modernity in China.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> and <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran stories about the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group's education and outreach program, with quotes from biologist <b>Glenn Stewart.</b> KION TV has also contacted Stewart and arranged to cover his upcoming visit to a school in Pacific Grove.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b>, who conducted a survey of self-employment rates for the Small Business Association, was contacted by the <i>Herald News</i> of New Jersey for a story about immigrant-owned businesses.
</p>
<p>
  PhD recipient<b>James Todd</b> was among the anthropologists quoted in a lighthearted <i>Washington Post</i> analysis of the Super Bowl spectacle.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Manuel Pastor</b> of Latin American and Latino studies was tapped for comment by the <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> for a story about the widening economic gap in Silicon Valley.
</p>
<p>
  An article in the <i>Monterey Herald</i> on efforts to improve local tsunami preparedness included quotes from geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b>.
</p>
<p>
  The Pajaro Valley edition of the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> ran a front-page story about the completion of a series on the agricultural history of Santa Cruz by the University Library's <b>Regional History Project</b>.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-14/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
