---
layout: post
title: "Student Regent hopefuls invited to orientations, workshops"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: Louise Donahue
post_id: 5317
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The Career Center has some advice for anyone hoping to become the first student Regent from UCSC: Don't delay.
</p>
<p>
  "When students wait until the last minute, there are little details that get missed--and those details can make a big difference," said Cyndi Edinger, campus Student Regent recruitment coordinator for the Career Center and a '94 Stevenson alumna. Edinger encourages interested students to check out the Career Center web site, <a href="http://careercenter.ucsc.edu">careercenter.ucsc.edu</a>, or <a href="mailto:cyndi@ucsc.edu">e-mail</a> her for more information<br>
</p>
<p>
  To help with the process, Student Regent orientations have been set for 10 to 11:30 a.m. on Wednesday, January 12, and Tuesday, February 1, at Bay Tree Conference Room C.
</p>
<p>
  Student Regent application review workshops, in which students bring their drafts for writing instructors to give comment, will be held from 3 to 4:30 p.m. on Friday, January 21, and from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Monday, February 7, at Bay Tree Conference Room A.
</p>
<p>
  Edinger is one of many on campus hoping this will be the year that a UCSC student is selected to sit on the UC Board of Regents. The first Student Regent was chosen in 1975, but no students from UCSC have served.
</p>
<p>
  "This is an outstanding opportunity for our students to participate in crucial decisions affecting UCSC and the whole UC system," said Acting Chancellor Martin M. Chemers. "I know our campus has many students who could serve with distinction, and I encourage them to apply and take advantage of the orientations and workshops at the Career Center."
</p>
<p>
  Edinger hopes that many members of the campus community will get involved in this year's effort. Some writing instructors have already offered to help, but any additional assistance in writing or willingness to serve as a resource is welcome. "Responding to the application's essay questions can be daunting," she said.
</p>
<p>
  Students will get the chance to learn firsthand about the position from current Student Regent Jodi Anderson and designate Adam Rosenthal when they visit campus at 3 p.m. on Thursday, January 27, at the College Nine/College Ten Namaste Lounge. Refreshments will be served.
</p>
<p>
  The Student Regent is a full voting member of the UC Board of Regents, attending all meetings of the board and its committees. The Student Regent serves a one-year term after serving one year as a Student Regent-designate. The person selected this academic year for the post would begin serving as a Regent-designate in July.
</p>
<p>
  Applicants must be students who will still be registered at a UC institution when they take office, and also must be in good academic standing. The successful student candidate will have expenses covered and all tuition and fees--including parking--waived while serving two years as Regent-designate and Regent.
</p>
<p>
  Regents' duties include overseeing the financial management of the university, its investment, and its property holdings as well as appointing the president of the University of California, the 10 campus chancellors, and the directors of the major Department of Energy research laboratories.
</p>
<p>
  Applications for Student Regent are winnowed down by the UC Northern and Southern Regional Commissions, made up of undergraduate and graduate student body presidents from each UC campus, and the UC Student Association, made up of at least one voting student representative from each UC campus. Three finalists are then selected, and a committee of the Board of Regents makes the final choice.
</p>
<p>
  Student Regent applications are due to the Chancellor's Office on February 24.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Applications and additional information are available <a href="http://www2.ucsc.edu/careers/jobs/regent.html">online</a>.</i>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/01-10/regent.asp" title="Permalink to regent">Source</a></p>
