---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5489
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Biologist <b>Steven Berkeley</b> was featured in stories about fish populations and fisheries management that appeared in the <i>Washington Post, San Jose Mercury News, Monterey County Herald, Guardian</i> (London), <i>Irish Independent</i>, and the Greenwire and Press Association wire service reports.
</p>
<p>
  United Press International and Canada's <i>Leader-Post</i> were among the media outlets that covered research by psychologist <b>Mara Mather</b>, who found that older people make decisions differently from younger people.
</p>
<p>
  History of art and visual culture professor <b>Carolyn Dean</b> was featured in a <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i> piece about an exhibit of pre-Columbian art at the Santa Cruz Museum of Art and History.
</p>
<p>
  Various media outlets ran stories about research by physicist <b>David Smith</b> on powerful gamma-ray flashes in Earth's upper atmosphere, including <i>New Scientist</i> magazine, the <i>Washington Times</i>, UPI wire service, and a dozen science news web sites, such as <i>Science Daily, Space Ref</i>, and <i>Space Daily</i>. Smith was also interviewed on KSCO Radio.
</p>
<p>
  Psychology's <b>Dominic Massaro</b> was quoted in <i>Newsweek</i>'s international edition in a story about how robots can help autistic children understand and cope with the world around them. Massaro's animated computer characters have been used for three years at a school for autistic children in Santa Cruz.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was quoted in the <i>Record</i> of New Jersey about the declining rate of immigrant self-employment.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Economist</i> magazine ran a story about a discovery made by <a href="http://www.transitsearch.org/">Transitsearch.org</a>, a network of amateur astronomers established by <b>Greg Laughlin</b>, assistant professor of astronomy and astrophysics.
</p>
<p>
  Geophysicist <b>Steven Ward</b> continues to be quoted in tsunami stories, most recently in the <i>Miami Herald</i> and <i>St. John's Telegram</i> (Canada).
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Statesman India</i> announced that more than 15 original prints of Satyajit Ray films, which have been restored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences through the initiation of the UCSC <b>Satyajit Ray Film and Study Collection</b>, would be showcased at a summer festival in Calcutta, India.
</p>
<p>
  Agroecology researcher <b>Phil Howard</b> has been interviewed about food issues by KSCO Radio, the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, and the <i>Register-Pajaronian</i>.
</p>
<p>
  Research on Parkinson's disease by <b>Anthony Fink</b>, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, was covered in several medical newsletters, including <i>Drug Week, Health Business Week, Biotech Week</i>, and <i>Life Science Weekly</i>.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Monterey County Herald</i> consulted with Chadwick Garden manager <b>Orin Martin</b> for tips on controlling rust on roses.
</p>
<p>
  Econ professor <b>David Kaun</b> penned a letter to the editors of the <i>Santa Cruz Sentinel</i>, refuting the Bush administration's claims that the Social Security system is going broke.
</p>
<p>
  <i>College and Research Libraries News</i> announced the $1.4 million gift from UCSC Foundation trustee <b>Kit Mura-smith</b> to enhance the University Library and provide scholarships for re-entry students.
</p>
<p>
  The <i>Silicon Valley/San Jose Business Journal</i> quoted professor of music <b>David Evan Jones</b> in an article about a dinner he attended in San Jose, along with Chancellor Denton, that was hosted by the Korean consul general.<br>
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-28/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
