---
layout: post
title: "Third EIR 'scoping' meeting for LRDP planned on campus"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5415
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  Due to a conflict between the winter-quarter meeting of UCSC's Academic Senate and two "scoping" meetings scheduled on February 16 concerning the EIR for the campus's updated Long Range Development Plan, project planners have added a third meeting to receive input on the scope of issues to be considered in the EIR.
</p>
<p>
  The third workshop will be held on campus on February 18. The meeting will take place from 10 a.m. to noon in Bay Tree Conference Room D, in Quarry Plaza.
</p>
<p>
  The first two meetings will still take place at the UCSC Inn and<br>
  Conference Center on February 16, beginning at 3 and again at 6 p.m. (see earlier <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/04-05/01-24/lrdp.asp">Currents article</a>).
</p>
<p>
  While the first meeting on February 16 is still planned between 3 and 5 p.m., the schedule and format for the 6 p.m. meeting have been changed to accommodate people who can't make the start time.
</p>
<p>
  The changes in the 6 p.m. meeting are as follows:
</p>
<p>
  * The length of the second meeting has been extended one hour; the meeting will now end at 9 p.m.
</p>
<p>
  * The public comment period will be interrupted at approximately 7:15 for 10 minutes so that introductory remarks can be repeated for late arrivals.
</p>
<p>
  The latest draft of the 2005 LRDP, meanwhile, was completed in late January. The draft long-range plan, updated since public comment was received on the document this past fall, is a physical blueprint for growth that is expected to take place on campus during the next 15 years.
</p>
<p>
  It is posted online and can be accessed via UCSC's "<a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/planning_2020">Planning through 2020</a>" web site.
</p>
<p>
  The EIR will assess the impact of the physical growth forecast in the LRDP. At the three scoping meetings, public agencies and members of the public are invited to provide oral comments on issues they would like to be addressed in the draft EIR.
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/02-07/lrdp.asp" title="Permalink to lrdp">Source</a></p>
