---
layout: post
title: "UCSC in the News"
author: Public Information Office
article_author: 
post_id: 5516
images:
---

<a name="content" id="content"></a>
<p>
  The <i>Christian Science Monitor</i> quoted international economist <b>Joshua Aizenman</b> in a trend story about the growing number of professional and educational opportunities in India. With more Indians choosing to stay home to work and study, India is rapidly pursuing its goal of becoming a "knowledge economy," the paper reported.<br>
</p>
<p>
  American studies professor <b>Tricia Rose</b> was quoted in the <i>Orlando Sentinel</i> about the pervasiveness of pop culture's highly sexual and demeaning images of African American women. Rose also contributed a book review of Keith Boykin's <i>Beyond The Down Low: Sex, Lies, and Denial in Black America</i> to the <i>Washington Post</i>.
</p>
<p>
  <i>Science News</i> magazine ran a story about research by physicist <b>David Smith</b> on terrestrial gamma-ray flashes.
</p>
<p>
  Associate history professor <b>Pedro Castillo</b> was quoted in a <i>Fresno Bee</i> article about a bill passed in Mexico's lower house allowing Mexicans abroad to vote from within the United States in presidential elections.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Nirvikar Singh</b> has penned a column about the budget process in India for the Delhi-based <i>Financial Express,</i> one of the top business dailies in India.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Stephen Thorsett</b>, professor and chair of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in an article in the <i>Mid-County Post</i> about UCSC's involvement in plans for a new space-based telescope.
</p>
<p>
  Economist <b>Rob Fairlie</b> was quoted in an <i>Asbury Park Press</i> story about the obstacles faced by black entrepreneurs, including lack of access to capital and experience.
</p>
<p>
  Writing lecturer <b>Conn Hallinan</b> was quoted in the <i>Fresno Bee</i> about the shortfalls of a media industry dominated by corporate conglomerates.
</p>
<p>
  <b>Douglas N. C. Lin</b>, professor of astronomy and astrophysics, was featured in a story on <i>Space.com</i> about "orphan planets" wandering through space after being ejected from their solar systems.
</p>
<p>
  The German magazine <i>Gesundheit</i> reproduced data generated by the UC Atlas of Global Inequality for a piece about life expectancy. The atlas is a project of the <b>Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies.</b>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Francisco Chronicle</i> described a courtroom portrait of history of consciousness professor <b>Angela Davis</b> that was featured in a rare exhibit at UC Berkeley's main library of sketches from famous trials.
</p>
<p>
  Sociology doctoral recipient <b>John Ackerman</b> coauthored an op-ed piece about Mexico for the <i>New York Times.</i>
</p>
<p>
  The <i>San Jose Mercury News</i> noted assistant professor of theater arts <b>David Cuthbert</b>'s role as the lighting designer for actor/comedian Billy Crystal's hit Broadway show, <i>700 Sundays</i>.
</p>
<p>
  In <i>Family Practice News</i>, sociology's <b>Mike Males</b> discussed a recent study that reported a drop in teen drug use.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="http://www.ucsc.edu/news_events/media_highlights"><b>Media Highlights</b></a> <b>provides monthly summaries of "UCSC in the News" columns.</b><br>
</p><br>
<form>
  <input name="t1" size="-1" type="hidden"><input name="SUBMIT" type="submit" value="E-mail this story to a friend">
</form>
<p>
  <a href="http://currents.ucsc.edu/">Return to Front Page</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://www1.ucsc.edu/currents/04-05/03-07/news.asp" title="Permalink to news">Source</a></p>
